The increase of rents is due to two causes: changes in the agents by which they become more efficient technically, or more numerous; and changes taking place outside of the agents, affecting the utility of the products.
It is often assumed to be a peculiar thing, sharply in contrast to other changes in value.
In some cases, however, improvements such as the dredging of harbors or as the protecting of forests, are made by men collectively through the agency of governments.
During the Boer War horses and mules rose in price in the United States on account of British purchases.
Public franchises entitle the owners to special, sometimes exclusive, privileges, and protect them legally from competition.
A small brass rod is fed automatically to the machine; a piece is cut off, is picked up by a human like metal hand; is put into a lathe, and shifted or held firmly while it goes through fifteen or twenty processes; and then is dropped into a box where it is ready for the "assembling" of the watch.
As population grows and groups about new industries, farm land is used for residence lots, and in turn for business purposes. Rents therefore rise, and this rise is reflected in the higher selling value of the land.
Peculiar fitness for the cultivation of celery may convert marsh land into a substantial source of income.
Some of the groupings in the chemical and physical world that do not fit man's purposes may be made to do so.
The two causes have in most cases the same result.
The log, once started through the mill, is carried automatically from one machine to another until it emerges as a roll of paper or as a box of tooth picks, ready for use.
Such prosperous periods are the opportunity of the business man and of the promoter to sell the factory at its highest price.
In an American watch factory one man tends twelve or fifteen automatic machines.
In commerce and transportation, new ways are opened by canals, railroads, and tunnels. An isthmian canal will raise the efficiency of ships plying between New York and San Francisco, enabling them to carry a greater amount of freight within a year.
Improved types of machinery more or less rapidly displace the older, less efficient types, which, therefore, more or less completely lose their rent bearing power long before they are physically worn out.
The increase of the efficiency of agents is usually the aim of the individual producer, and thus is brought about an increase of the stock of wealth.
The discovery of building stone, coal, natural gas, or oil land may make the annual rent (or royalty) of land tenfold its former total value.
Fitness to produce nettles is not ordinarily a virtue in land, but the discovery that certain fields produce a superior quality of the nettle used for heckling cloth, causes them to take on a new value.
five.
The world in this way becomes more and more a great workshop, better and better adjusted to man's wants.
In its economic function the beast of burden may not illogically be classed with inanimate machines.
A machine is an arrangement of material things through which force may be indirectly applied to move matter.
As the number of agents increases they are distributed so as to be where most useful to the owner.
Not all franchises are valuable; many street railways are unfortunate ventures, the earnings being insufficient to pay expenses, to say nothing of interest on the investment.
five.
If some of the competing machines are destroyed, the rents of the machines that remain rise, while if new supplies are found, either in nature or by improved industrial processes, the rents of the older agents fall.
Agents of the same kind may diminish in number, either absolutely or relatively.
Social changes are constantly causing agents to shift from lower to higher uses.
The horses in America have been remarkably improved of recent years by the importation of thoroughbred stock from Europe.
Such a lucky find has lifted the mortgage from a farm in eastern Pennsylvania, from which, in two or three years, has been taken feldspar exceeding in value the agricultural products of the same land in the last fifty years.
In this search for new devices the man who can see most quickly and clearly has a key to wealth.
He can strive to increase the number and quality and to get control of such agents as he foresees will yield higher rents.
When improvements in agriculture that are applicable to a considerable area of land take place, and the product thus is increased and cheapened, the poorer land is abandoned.
The aim of a progressive society is to enlarge the environment, and constantly to adapt it better to the service of wants.
The cars, mules, dynamos, steam engines, and other agents combined to furnish transportation, have a special earning power because other similar agents are forbidden to be used in that market.
The first of these will be considered in this section.
Increase in machinery may be either in quality or quantity.
In some cases powerful or wealthy men can bring about social changes in entirely legitimate ways.
Inventions and improvements thus gradually becoming common property, increase the free goods and free uses not bearing rent and open to every one.
This is done largely by mechanical agents, which capture the natural forces of the world, put them into the right place at the right time, and make them do the right thing, or which group and relate the materials of the world in the right ways.
three.
Numbers alone are not the measure of efficiency.
As changes in the conditions of society may reduce rents, so other changes may increase them.
By the building of wharves, the dredging of harbors, and by many other methods, indirect agents are constantly growing in number and efficiency.
In most cases, however, social changes are impersonally caused.
If a new demand arises for the product of any machine, its rent rises, although it may continue to turn out the same product as measured by number or quantity.
But when they pay greatly, their high value is due to the impossibility of competition.
A man having two umbrellas keeps one at his office and the other at home; a student having two books of the same kind keeps one at his room and the other at the university; a farmer having two hoes keeps one at the barn and the other in a distant field, and by this distribution the agents are increased in efficiency.
Again, social changes are produced immorally, if not illegitimately, when wealthy men or influential politicians cause laws to be passed which inure to their advantage but which may ruin many other citizens.
one.
It is said that lace machinery is sometimes thrown out of use for several years, until a sudden renewal of the demand for lace causes the rental to equal, in two years, more than the original cost.
The owner of a large factory, moving it into the country, may buy up surrounding land and found a city, converting pasture lands and corn fields into valuable building lots.
one.
This evidently is only a special illustration of the principle just stated, where it is not easy to find a substitute for certain agents.
Somewhere, however, the desire for these changes must arise in the minds of individuals.
A rise in the value of any agent at once causes an attempt to duplicate it or to find a substitute for it; this attempt, if successful, puts a check or sets a limit to the rise.
If the quality or efficiency of looms is doubled, it is as if their number had grown in like proportion.
As the machinery improves, factories making allied products are grouped to make a system still more efficient.
It was not at once recognized that there was embodied in horse flesh more horse power than ever before, as a single Norman horse has the strength of several Mexican mustangs.
This end, therefore, must be in itself desirable, and social organization must be such as to present a motive to the men to make the needed effort.
Some kinds of agents, as rare minerals or tools that can be produced only by highly skilled labor, cannot be increased rapidly in number and remain high in price for a long period; and favorably located building sites illustrate the same principle.
Just as a field is drained, plowed, and cultivated to fit it better to yield a crop, so is the iron ore shaped into a form called a machine, better fitted to cut, carve, and weave as man wills. Machines are merely adaptations of natural resources.
Indeed, we are close here to the conception of psychic income which is to be developed more fully.
The student should endeavor to reduce the problem of value to its simplest form by considering first the exchange, at the present moment, of immediately enjoyable goods.
In order to produce some goods technically, men make use of other goods.
So, when a good has been enjoyed, the utility to that person of that thing or service for that particular moment, falls, it may be even to zero.
The distinction led to some peculiar puzzles and paradoxes.
But it is a need in the life of men that wants should recur after a time, otherwise there would be no motive for action.
We may liken man's life to a journey in which the supplies of food are gotten at the stations.
But funded income is the more abiding, for income from wages stops when the man dies or fails to perform his work, while the income from wealth continues after he ceases to be active.
It is true that everything called wealth is expected to contribute sooner or later in some way to the sum of gratifications.
The nature of the acquisition of objective incomes may, in some cases, be different if viewed from the social and individual standpoints.
It is for that reason it is called wealth.
In a time of famine it could be used, but seed corn was saved from last year, and some must be kept for next year.
The value of the mass of wealth in possession and yielding income, rests in large part upon its power of contributing to income in some future period.
Thus, more and more, the estimates placed by men on goods come to depend on knowledge and foresight, and not on immediate impressions and feelings.
CHAPTER six
It is, however, a mere figure of speech to say indirect want gratifiers become want gratifying goods.
The one kind is gross, the other net income.
Thus, families with equal incomes may differ greatly in wealth, the one depending entirely on salaries, the other on rents.
The logical starting point in the theory of value is in those goods that are in closest touch with feeling, and on this basis may be built up an explanation of values in which reason and forethought have a greater part.
Usually many of these subtler utilities are overlooked and omitted from the recognized money income.
The vineyard has no value to Tantalus, unable to reach its fruit.
The extension of man's view works a momentous change in his economic estimates.
one.
In this day the use of money is so common that we are sometimes led to ignore the value of things to which the money expression is not given.
Material income and immaterial income are both related to and reducible to psychic income.
A field used to produce food is not a direct want gratifier until it is transformed into a residence site, a playground, or a tennis court.
three.
But many of them are so connected in his thought by chains of association with pleasures or uses, that almost instinctively and most intensely he attaches an importance to them.
A building used as a factory is called productive, but used by the owner as a dwelling it is called unproductive because the service it renders does not appear in material form.
The spring and autumn migrations to new feeding grounds are the attempts of the bird to gratify this series of wants as they arise.
Things outside of men cannot be feelings, they can only call out or occasion feeling, and it is the attainment of pleasurable conditions in mind or soul that is the aim of all economic activity.
In this case, a gratification of the present moment is compared with a gratification of a very different kind at a future time.
The best results in reading or eating come from taking the right amount day by day.
In most cases it would require close thought to see that the service attributed directly to them was but a reflection of that performed by some other good.
three.
The income is "funded" because it corresponds to an abiding fund of wealth.
Society, as a whole, may be said to acquire income only when goods are produced; individuals may acquire income by gift, bequest, theft, or other modes of transfer from other individuals.
five.
With increased intelligence the economic life of man expands, and he attaches importance to things which at the present moment have not, and cannot have, the slightest influence on his immediate gratification.
This will be fully considered under the subject of capital.
The goods that come into a man's possession in any period are of many sorts: to get some he has destroyed many previously existing goods; while to get others he has not needed to use up the accumulations of the past or to mortgage the future.
The bartender mixing drinks, adds to the value of those ingredients; in a minute that value is dissipated.
INCOME AS A SERIES OF GRATIFICATIONS
Thus, any durable good may be looked upon as embodying a series of incomes ranging from present to future in varying degrees.
Chained by their ignorance and improvidence to a little spot of earth, they do not see clearly, either in time or space, the economic relations about them.
Further, in the economic world there is much wealth that never can gratify any want directly; many forms of wealth never can be consumption goods.
PSYCHIC INCOME
Often the complex nature of the problem is ignored.
No impression on the nerves or on the senses is lasting.
Wants recur for the same reason that they first arose.
We should not understand that either social or private objective incomes include only material goods, for many utilities and labor services that never take on a material or money expression are included in either case.
Only the net increase in value can be accounted income in the second period.
The ant, the bee, and the squirrel anticipate, and work to fill their storehouses against the days of need.
This constant inflow of goods is one of the fundamental needs of life.
Of the thousands of forms of matter in the world, only a comparatively few ever will make an immediate gratifying impression on man's senses.
A machine making cloth for next year is gratifying wants only in a metaphorical sense.
Men living in savagery and ignorance starve amid the possibilities of plenty.
one.
The business man always is trying to trace a causal relation between things that do not and cannot themselves directly satisfy wants, and things that do.
But many things existing which could be used to secure a gratification are not in fact treated as consumption goods.
The money income is merely the money expression of the value of currently acquired goods, and it is the only medium through which such varied sources of gratification can be compared.
The problem involved is complex because of differences in time, in place, and in the nature of the want gratifiers.
If one discusses the trading of a bushel of grain, to be used by a hungry man for food, for a sheep to be kept for breeding, or for wool to be made into cloth next year, he may overlook the difference in the grade of wants compared.
While they are storing up a supply of wood or coal it may be looked upon as the income, but they may burn it to help grow hothouse plants.
But a similar distinction is inconsistently preserved by many writers in the case of material things.
The distinction in question is not now made by economists, all labor that contributes to value being regarded as productive.
A crop of corn is not all income.
There was a long-standing dispute in economic literature regarding the difference between productive and unproductive labor. Productive labor was said to be that which embodied itself in abiding material form.
According to the distinction in question, he is a productive laborer because his services are embodied in material form, whereas the lecturer is regarded as an unproductive laborer because the results of his labor are not embodied in material form.
If it is part of the sum of goods that flows in, that is newly available for the man's use, it is income.
But whether or not the service has for a moment embodied itself in material form is of no essential economic import.
six.
Even the birds and the beasts adjust their lives to it either by travel or by toil.
A captive, chained to a rock, attaches value only to the things within his reach.
The income arising from current labor is unfunded, because there is no permanent fund of accumulated wealth corresponding to it.
But the use of the house, or that of land for a school ground or campus, secures a certain gratification, an immaterial good.
The savage dimly understands this need.
While they gather flowers with one hand, they destroy fuel with the other.
Man's senses were developed for the purpose of bringing him into relation with the outer world, of enabling him to survive in his struggle with the forces of nature.
Some portions at least of the objective incomes of goods are continually by use becoming subjective incomes of enjoyment.
It is necessary therefore to recognize the distinction between present and future incomes.
Man, chiefly cognizant of his soul through his senses, thought with an awful horror of the night which deprived him of the use of one and foreshadowed the loss of all.
Cusic, who takes up the story of the Iroquois a thousand years before the Christian era, locates them first in the most eastern region they ever possessed.
Do not all those marvellous and subtle forces known to the older chemists as the imponderable elements, without which not even the inorganic crystal is possible, proceed from the rays of light?
This they did in spite of history.
To the east, therefore, should these nations have pointed as their original dwelling place.
When, however, scorning such unequal combat, he had manifested his power by hurling the lightning on the hill sides and consuming the forests, they recognized their maker, and humbled themselves before him.
The two nations were remote in everything but geographical position.
So strong is the resemblance Ioskeha bears to Michabo, that what has been said in explanation of the latter will be sufficient for both.
At last he disappeared in the western ocean.
They were without flesh or blood, impalpable, invisible, and incredibly swift of foot.
There is a general resemblance between this story and that of Michabo. Both precede and create the sun, both journey to the west, overcoming opposition with the thunderbolt, both divide the world between the four winds, both were the fathers, gods, and teachers of their nations.
He himself constructed these luminaries and placed them in the sky, and then peopled the earth with its present inhabitants.
It is the story of Sarama in the Rig Veda, and was written in Sanscrit, under the shadow of the Himalayas, centuries before Homer.
Even the complicated mythology of Peru yields to the judicious application of these principles of interpretation.
Michabo, I have shown, is the white spirit of the Dawn.
It reminds one of the white twin of Iroquois legend, and illustrates how the color white came to be intimately associated with the morning light and its beneficent effects.
Nor does it cease here.
Language itself is proof of it.
Its peculiar obscurity arises from the policy of the Incas to blend the religions of conquered provinces with their own.
We cannot be too cautious in adopting such a conclusion.
"From night to light, From night to heavenly light;"
His emblematic name, the Bird Serpent, and his rebus and cross at Palenque, I have already explained.
When he finally disappeared in the far east, he sent back four trusty youths who had ever shared his fortunes, "incomparably swift and light of foot," with directions to divide the earth between them and rule it till he should return and resume his power.
Our authorities on Iroquois traditions, though numerous enough, are not so satisfactory.
In time he became the father of mankind, and special guardian of the Iroquois.
Such uniformity points not to a common source in history, but in psychology.
"Light Sprang from the deep, and from her native east To journey through the airy gloom began."
The brothers quarrelled, and finally came to blows; the former using the horns of a stag, the latter the wild rose.
The victor returned to his grandmother, and established his lodge in the far east, on the borders of the great ocean, whence the sun comes.
But many insist that he was at first a man, some deified king.
King Manco, however, was a real character, the Rudolph of Hapsburg of their reigning family, and flourished about the eleventh century.
Yet I do not imagine that the one was copied or borrowed from the other.
The dawn rises above the horizon as the snowy foam on the surface of a lake.
Four personages, companions or sons, were closely connected with him.
By shaking his sandals he gave fire to men, and peace, plenty, and riches blessed his subjects.
They rose together with him from the lake, or else were his first creations.
He of the weaker weapon was very naturally discomfited and sorely wounded.
Fleeing for life, the blood gushed from him at every step, and as it fell turned into flint stones.
Who shall say that his instinct led him here astray?
The same dualism reappears in him that has been noted in his analogues elsewhere; He is both lord of the eastern light and the winds.
He was more than that, for in their creed he was creator and possessor of all things.
Wherever he went all manner of singing birds bore him company, emblems of the whistling breezes.
Irritated at his defeat he took with him the rain, and consequently to this day the sea coast of Peru is largely an arid desert.
For the wind and the light both depart when the gloaming draws near, or when the clouds spread their dark and shadowy webs along the mountains, and pour the vivifying rain upon the fields.
From the lake he journeyed westward, not without adventures, for he was attacked with murderous intent by the beings whom he had created.
Con first possessed the land, but Pachacama attacked and drove him to the north.
Yet this is not Algonkin theology; nor is it at all related to that of the Iroquois.
The arrows which he shot transfixed great trees, the stones he threw levelled forests, and when he laid his hands on the rocks the mark was indelible. Yet as thus emblematic of the thunder storm, he possessed in full measure its better attributes.
His symbols were the bird, the serpent, the cross, and the flint, representing the clouds, the lightning, the four winds, and the thunderbolt.
Lands and herds were assigned to other gods to support their temples, and offerings were heaped on their altars, but to him none.
The central figure of Toltec mythology is Quetzalcoatl.
All these sentiments were linked to the dawn.
You've never seen the Works either, have you?"
They fenced with some polite feints of interest in each other, the old man standing beside his writing table, and staying himself with a shaking hand upon it.
At moments it all seemed no harm; at others, the luxury in which this life was so contentedly sunk oppressed Annie like a thick, close air.
"No, I haven't, Lyra.
But she had to own to herself that she did like her, and enjoyed hearing her soft drawl.
I've often heard my wife speak of your old days together at Hatboro'."
I want you to take a drive with me, and try my new phaeton," said Lyra, coming out.
We'll go down to the Works.
The Wilmington Stocking Mills spun their own threads, and the first room was like what Annie had seen before in cotton factories, with a faint smell of oil from the machinery, and a fine snow of fluff in the air, and catching to the white washed walls and the foul window sashes.
It would be kind of conjugal, or filial, or something.
She wearied herself, as people do in such places, in expressing her wonder at the ingenuity of the machinery; it was a relief to get away from it all into the room, cool and quiet, where half a dozen neat girls were counting and stamping the stockings with different numbers.
She tried to think how Jack Wilmington's having gone to Boston for the evening made it somehow less censurable for her to spend it with Lyra, even if she did not approve of her.
"Oh-oh-decidedly!
I'll go with you, with great pleasure.
Lyra interrupted them.
"Well, I don't know; they're opposites.
"Don't you think, Annie, we'd better refer him to mr Peck?
"I'll show them through," he said to his uncle; and the old man assented with, "Well, perhaps you'd better, Jack," and went back to his room.
I've just got my new phaeton, and I drove up at once to crush you with it.
I thought they wanted to please themselves and mortify others.
She said she studied music a little, and confessed that she read a good deal, novels mostly, though the library was handsomely equipped with well bound general literature.
"Why is that girl going to take part in the theatricals?
When they left the mill she asked Annie to come home to tea with her, saying, as if from a perception of her dislike for the young fellow, that Jack was going to Boston.
She was sure that she ought not to like Lyra if she did not approve of her, and that she ought not to have gone home to tea with her and spent the evening with her unless she fully respected her.
The tireless machines marched back and forth across the floor, and the men who watched them with suicidal intensity ran after them barefooted when they made off with a broken thread, spliced it, and then escaped from them to their stations again.
You've never met my husband yet; have you, Annie?"
It was not imposingly large, but, as mrs Wilmington caused Annie to observe, it was as big as the hat shops and as ugly as the shoe shops.
"George, I want to introduce you to Miss Kilburn."
She asked her how she ever came to take up the Social Union, and answered for her that of course it had the attraction of the theatricals, and went on to talk of her sister's part in them.
"Well, he's really at home now.
Isn't it a beauty?"
"Well, then, we'll just go round there, and kill two birds with one stone. I ought to show off my new phaeton to mr Wilmington first of all; he gave it to me.
twelve.
"You're too late, Lyra," said Annie.
At the outer office door they encountered Jack Wilmington.
And I don't mean at the house, which isn't home to him, but the Works.
But her mind wandered to the men and women who were operating it, and who seemed no more a voluntary part of it than all the rest, except when Jack Wilmington curtly ordered them to do this or that in illustration of some point he was explaining.
"Oh, it's at the rehearsals, you know, that the fun is, and then it don't matter what part you have."
She talked freely of her marriage, not as if it were like others, but for what it was. She showed Annie over the house, and she ended with a display of the rich dresses which he was always buying her, and which she never wore, because she never went anywhere.
In other rooms, where there was a stunning whir of spindles, girls and women were at work; they looked after Lyra and her nephew from under cotton frowsed bangs; they all seemed to know her, and returned her easy, kindly greetings with an effect of liking.
He seems to have been perpetually just gone to town, or not got back."
Annie now looked at it with that irresolution of hers, and Lyra commanded: "Get right in.
"I've just come from the Northwicks, and another crushing beauty has got in ahead of your phaeton."
"I didn't know that people took part in theatricals for that, Annie.
"No, I haven't."
It throws a new light on it; and if that's the way nice people are going to look at it, why, we must give up the idea.
"Well," said mrs Wilmington, with another laugh, "I'll think it over, mrs Munger."
But I want to see mrs Wilmington first."
"As mrs Wilmington's old friend, you will have the greatest influence with her."
It's so fortunate they were frank about it.
I might have been a hand at this moment if mr Wilmington had not come along and invited me to be a head-the head of his house.
"It's very pretty of you to say so, mrs Munger," drawled mrs Wilmington. "But I guess I must oppose the little invited dance and supper, on principle.
I don't know about not letting the hands stay to the dance and supper, mrs Munger.
"Jack's learning to be superintendent," said mrs Wilmington, lifting her teasing voice to make him hear her in the hall, "and he's been spending the whole morning here."
"Well," said mrs Munger, complying without regard to Annie, "all this diplomacy is certainly very exhausting."
"Yes; that's just the point.
"Well, I didn't work very hard, and I didn't have to work long.
"Put another plate, Norah," said mrs Wilmington carelessly.
"Yes, that's what any one would think-in the abstract," said mrs Munger.
The dust gradually freed itself from the cinders about the tracks, and it hardened into a handsome, newly made road beyond the houses of the shop hands.
"Yes," mrs Munger broke in; "but they were not your beginnings, mrs Wilmington; they were your incidents-your accidents."
They drove along under the elms which here stood somewhat at random about the wide, grassless street, between the high, windowy bulks of the shoe shops and hat shops.
"No; I'm going to the office," said the nephew, bowing himself out of the room.
"And now we must really be going," she added, pulling out her watch by its leathern guard.
You know I might feel 'put upon.' I used to be one of the hands myself.
"Oh, am I such an influential person?" said mrs Wilmington, with a shrug. "It's rather awful-isn't it, Annie?"
"But I don't know that I wish to influence her in favour of the supper and dance; I don't know that I believe in them," said Annie, cowed and troubled by the affair.
Do you mean with regard to mr Gerrish?"
As I said to Miss Kilburn on our way here, 'if mrs Wilmington is opposed to them, we'll drop them.'"
"I saw that they both made fun of it," said Annie.
"Oh yes," said Annie, with a smile.
"And besides, there was mr Wilmington, I know.
"He's an odious little creature, and I knew that he would go for the dance and supper because mr Peck was opposed to them.
Jack," she called over her shoulder to the young man at the window, "do you think your uncle would approve of me as Juliet's Nurse?"
They passed some open lots, and then, on a pleasant rise of ground, they came to a stately residence, lifted still higher on its underpinning of granite blocks.
It's none of the hands' business if you don't choose to ask them."
In the richly appointed dining room-a glitter of china and glass and a mass of carven oak-the table was laid for two.
"Why, Annie," she said, "how glad I am to see you!
And the question is, whether I ought to go back on my fellow hands."
Yes, Annie, there was a time after you went away, and after father died, when I actually fell so low as to work for an honest living."
Annie, I shall not excuse you."
He was very opportune.
When she came to the question of the invited supper and dance, and having previously committed mrs Wilmington in favour of the general scheme, asked her what she thought of that part, mr Jack Wilmington answered for her-
"Oh no; I don't care anything about him," said mrs Munger, touching her pony with the tip of her whip lash.
And you too, mrs Munger.
"Well, I must think about that, and I must ask mr Wilmington.
mr Wilmington has built a very fine house on this side, and there are several pretty Queen Anne cottages going up."
But I was a hand, and there's no use trying to deny it.
You were not brought up to it; it was just temporary; and besides-"
You saw how they took it."
It was built in a Boston suburban taste of twenty years ago, with a lofty mansard roof, and it was painted the stone grey colour which was once esteemed for being so quiet. The lawn before it sloped down to the road, where it ended smoothly at the brink of a neat stone wall.
I'm quite prepared to do so.
"Not till you've had lunch," said mrs Wilmington, rising with the ladies. "You must stay.
He's one of the anti Peck party in his church, and that is the reason I spoke to him.
That's a great relief."
"I think I heard, Lyra," said Annie; "but I had forgotten." The fact, in connection with what had been said, made her still more uncomfortable.
He sat down cornerwise on a chair, and listened, with a scornful thrust of his thick lips, to their talk.
"Well, I confess," said Annie, "I don't see how, exactly.
She checked the pony before the bar which the flagman at the railroad crossing had let down, while a long freight train clattered deafeningly by, and then drove bumping and jouncing across the tracks.
I will put the case to her."
She moved lazily about and got them into chairs, and was not resentful when mrs Munger broke out with "How hot you have it!" "Have we? We had the furnace lighted yesterday, and we've been in all the morning, and so we hadn't noticed.
"I should think you had a right to do what you please about it.
"That was a great success," said mrs Munger, as they drove away.
The young fellow bowed silently, and Annie instantly took a dislike to him, his heavy jaw, long eyes, and low forehead almost hidden under a thick bang.
"Will you join us, Jack?"
"mrs Munger," said Annie uneasily, "I would rather not see mrs Wilmington with you on this subject; I should be of no use."
"Not at all!" mrs Munger answered for Annie.
You let your aunty speak for herself.
"Social perdition at the least.
She opened her budget with all her robust authority, and once more put Annie to shame.
"Yes.
As mr Putney says, he and I have our record, and we don't have to make any pretences.
"Thank you," said mrs Munger.
Annie said nothing, and she added, "Don't you think so?"
A black asphalt path curved from the steps by which you mounted from the street to the steps by which you mounted to the heavy portico before the massive black walnut doors.
"We've just been talking the matter over with mr Putney and dr Morrell, and they're both opposed. You're merely the straw that breaks the camel's back, mrs Wilmington."
We all like to be consistent, as Annie says-even if we're inconsistent in the attempt," she added, with a laugh.
But I meant the other gentlemen.
Patriotic art students have discussed with mingled irony and admiration the Boston domination of the only American culture of the nineteenth century, namely, literature.
California is a gilded state.
Nevertheless Boston still controls the text book in English and dominates our high schools.
He says there is no substitute for time.
It certainly has the opportunity that comes with the actors, producers, and equipment.
As an institution it advertises itself with the sweeping gesture.
The campaign for a beautiful nation could very well emanate from the west coast, where with the slightest care grow up models for all the world of plant arrangement and tree luxury.
Edwin Markham, the dean of American singers, Clark Ashton Smith, the young star treader, George Sterling, that son of Ancient Merlin, have in their songs the seeds of better scenarios than California has sent us.
He declares it is as though it were painted on a Brobdingnagian piece of gilt paper, and he who dampens his finger and thrusts it through finds an alkali valley on the other side, the lonely prickly pear, and a heap of ashes from a deserted camp fire.
Then there is the lovely unforgotten Nora May French and the austere Edward Rowland Sill.
Each photoplay magazine has its California letter, telling of the putting up of new studios, and the transfer of actors, with much slap you on the back personal gossip.
Our mechanical East is reproved, our tension is relaxed, our ugliness is challenged every time we look upon those garden paths and forests.
When, in the hands of masters, they become sources of strength, they will be a different set of virtues from those of New England.
It is possible for Los Angeles to lay hold of the motion picture as our national text book in Art as Boston appropriated to herself the guardianship of the national text books of Literature.
It has not the sordidness of gold, as has Wall Street, but it is the embodiment of the natural ore that the ragged prospector finds.
Ironic feelings in this matter on the part of western men are based somewhat on envy and illegitimate cussedness, but are also grounded in the honest hope of a healthful rivalry.
But even these things make for coincidence.
Part of the thinness of California is not only its youth, but the result of the physical fact that the human race is there spread over so many acres of land.
His fellow feeling is for the opposite coast line.
Being thus dependent, the plant can best be set up where there is no winter.
At last that landing is achieved.
Let us hope that every region will develop the silent photographic pageant in a local form as outlined in the chapter on Progress and Endowment.
Around Los Angeles the greatest and most characteristic moving picture colonies are being built.
CALIFORNIA AND AMERICA
Will this land furthest west be the first to capture the inner spirit of this newest and most curious of the arts?
Already the California sort, in the commercial channels, has become the broadly accepted if mediocre national form. People who revere the Pilgrim Fathers of sixteen twenty have often wished those gentlemen had moored their bark in the region of Los Angeles rather than Plymouth Rock, that Boston had been founded there.
CHAPTER sixteen
And he can go on into stranger things and evolve all the Splendor Films into higher types, for the very name of California is splendor.
It is thrillingly possible for the state and the art to acquire spiritual tradition and depth together.
Then he tries gestures, and becomes flamboyant, rococo.
Indianapolis has had her day since then, Chicago is lifting her head.
This is the outgrowth of the fact that every type of the photoplay but the intimate is founded on some phase of the out of doors.
But for a description of California, ask any traveller or study the background of almost any photoplay.
They shout their statistics across the Rockies and the deserts to New York.
Whatever may be said of the patriarchs, from Oliver Wendell Holmes to amos Bronson Alcott, they were true sons of the New England stone fences and meeting houses.
There is no more natural place for the scattering of confetti than this state, except the moving picture scene itself.
The gold of California is the color of the orange, the glitter of dawn in the Yosemite, the hue of the golden gate that opens the sunset way to mystic and terrible Cathay and Hindustan.
He can derive his Patriotic and Religious Splendors from something older and more magnificent than the aisles of the Romanesque, namely: the groves of the giant redwoods.
The California photo playwright can base his Crowd Picture upon the city worshipping mobs of San Francisco.
Besides this, the Los Angeles region has the sea, the mountains, the desert, and many kinds of grove and field. Landscape and architecture are sub tropical.
Both have a genius for gardens and dancing and carnival.
The moving picture captains of industry, like the California gold finders of eighteen forty nine, making colossal fortunes in two or three years, have the same glorious irresponsibility and occasional need of the sheriff.
The present day man in the street, man about town Californian has an obvious magnificence about him that is allied to the eucalyptus tree, the pomegranate.
Here is where the photoplay can begin to give him a more delicate utterance.
They could not have been born or nurtured anywhere else on the face of the earth.
He has invented the new printing.
These are the defects of the motion picture qualities also.
Yet there is a difference.
These poems are The Night Sentries and Tidal King of Nations.
He says the citizens of this state lack the richness of an aesthetic and religious tradition.
It has the same passion for coast line.
But the Californian cannot shout "orange blossoms, orange blossoms; heliotrope, heliotrope!" He cannot boom forth "roseleaves, roseleaves" so that he does their beauties justice.
If the photoplay is the consistent utterance of its scenes, if the actors are incarnations of the land they walk upon, as they should be, California indeed stands a chance to achieve through the films an utterance of her own.
TO THE PUBLIC.
HELEN AND THE CURATE.
CHAPTER eight
A silver web has the moon spun, A silver web upon all the sky, Where the frail stars quiver, every one Like tangled gnats that hum and die.
Dark, with crumbling railing and planks, The bridge leads into the sunset. Across it many lonely figures, Their eyes a flare with the sunset, Their faces glowing with its colors, Tramp past me through the evening.
Grey The evening, like an opal; low, A grey moon shrouded in sea fog: Air pregnant with spring; rasp of my steps Beside the lapping water; within The dark.
That night from a dingy hotel room, I saw the moon, like a golden gong, Redly loom Across the lake; like a golden gong In a temple, which a priest ere long Will strike into throbbing song, To wake some silent twinkling city to prayer. The lake waves were flakes of red gold, Burnished to copper, Gold, red as the tangled gleam Of sunlight in your hair.
NIGHT PIECE
Monotonously the solemn reeds Waved to our passing; Ahead the canal shimmered, blotched green by the water weeds. With a grinding swing And see saw of sound, The steamer slunk down the canal.
The crowd thins, the players are alone; In their faith's raucous monotone, Loud with gaudy angels, tinsel cherubim, A drum pounds out the hymn.
And that other night, When the river rippled with faint spears Of street lights vaguely reflected.
INCARNATION
"I don't know,--what is it, Sam?"
"All we make," answered Sam.
Money!
Then the sheriff came and took my mule and corn and furniture-" "Furniture?
If you don't look up you can't get up,'" remarks Jackson, philosophically. And he's gotten up.
"I says, 'Look up!
Why had not the brown of his eyes crushed out and killed the blue?--for brown were his father's eyes, and his father's father's.
In the poise of his little curl crowned head did there not sit all that wild pride of being which his father had hardly crushed in his own heart?
As Bibbs came out of the New House, a Sunday trio was in course of passage upon the sidewalk: an ample young woman, placid of face; a black clad, thin young man, whose expression was one of habitual anxiety, habitual wariness and habitual eagerness.
"Listen till I get through-I want you to understand.
"Let me think.
"What made you say that?"
Tell me, though, isn't it true?
"Wait!"
But I couldn't!
He propelled a perambulator containing the third-and all three were newly cleaned, Sundayfied, and made fit to dine with the wife's relatives.
"I think I know what happened, now." Mary's breath came fast and her voice shook, but she spoke rapidly.
"No!" she cried.
I never dreamed you could need anything to be done for you by anybody.
"Nothing."
I never dreamed I could do anything for YOU!
I thought of you as a kind of wonderful being that had no mortal or human suffering except by sympathy.
I didn't know how to be anything except a well to do old maid or somebody's wife-and I couldn't be a well to do old maid.
"Listen," she said.
"You can't, because you can't put it into words-they are too humiliating for me and you're too gentle to say them.
"And you can't-you can't-"
"Bibbs, look at me!" Her voice was loud and clear.
"No!" he said, quickly.
Both of her hands leaped to her cheeks-she grew red and then white. She rose slowly and moved backward from him, staring at him, at first incredulously, then with an intense perplexity more and more luminous in her wide eyes; it was like a spoken question.
"I want you to tell me."
Never for an instant!"
I SAW myself!
I posted the letter, but he never got it. That was the afternoon he was killed.
It was always you that gave and I that took.
"What was it that made you?" she said.
The wife stared curiously at Bibbs.
Then, Bibbs, I did what I'd been raised to know how to do.
I can't see you, dear!
I did!" And she sank down into the chair, weeping bitterly again.
Still he did not look up, but in a voice, shaken and husky he asked her a question so grotesque that at first she thought she had misunderstood his words.
Now you know what I did-and you know-ME!" She pressed her clenched hands tightly against her eyes, leaning far forward, her head bowed before him.
It's more to me than even if you'd come because you were happy." She did not speak again for a little while; then she said: "Bibbs-dear-could you tell me about it?
"Bibbs, do you-" Her voice was as unsteady as his-little more than a whisper.
"You kill me!" he said.
"How'd you like for me to be THAT young fella, mamma?" the husband whispered.
"Mary, Mary!" he cried, helplessly.
"Let me tell you what you want to tell me," she said.
Bibbs swallowed painfully and contrived to say, "I do-I do want you to-marry me, if-if-you could."
What had I shown you of myself that could make you-"
"I think I'm beginning to understand-a little." She bit her lip; there was anger in good truth in her eyes and in her voice.
"Mary, I'm going with father.
You thought that I was fond of you; you knew I cared for you-but you didn't think I might be-in love with you. But you thought that I might marry you without being in love with you because you did believe I had tried to marry your brother, and-"
I told him just what I'd done; I asked his pardon, and I said I would not marry him.
"I do!"
Look at me!"
Bibbs had forgotten himself long ago; his heart broke for her.
You didn't believe that I'd tried to make you fall in love with me-"
What is it that's happened?"
"I can be glad of one thing, though it's selfish.
Then what made you ask me?
CHAPTER twenty nine
Oddly enough, Mary's pallor changed to an angry flush.
She gave a choked little laugh.
"You couldn't-"
"No, no, no!"
"I do, though!" she sobbed.
Do you want to?"
"Mary," he groaned, "I didn't know you COULD cry!"
"And you thought we were so-so desperate-you believed that I had-"
She meant it to express Sibyl's extremity, you see.
Something happened that-" She stopped abruptly, with a tremulous murmur of amazement and dawning comprehension.
"Ah, poor boy!" she said, with a gesture of understanding and pity.
"Couldn't you-Isn't there-Won't you-" he stammered.
Something did stop me; it was your sister in law, Sibyl.
She meant no harm-but she was horrible, and she put what I was doing into such horrible words-and they were the truth-oh!
That's all, Bibbs.
"You do not.
"Bibbs!" she cried.
"I didn't believe you'd done one kind thing for me-for that.
Mary, happening to glance from a window, saw Bibbs coming, and she started, clasping her hands together in a sudden alarm.
He came and stood beside her.
She remembered that Sibyl had gone to the New House.
It was all about my idiotic distresses and troubles.
You've given up."
"I can't make it plain.
We never had been, and we didn't know what to do.
"You mustn't come any more.
"Can't what, Bibbs?"
I did it openly, at least, and with a kind of decent honesty.
"Not you-oh no!"
I think I did mean to marry him.
"Oh, a thousand times!" Her right hand went out in a faltering gesture, and just touched his own for an instant.
Never, never, never!"
"Bibbs, do you want me to marry you?"
"Bibbs, do you know now why I stopped wearing my furs?"
"Yes."
Still without looking at her, he inclined his head in affirmation.
"He's one of the sons, and there ain't but two left now."
Bibbs was agonized.
The poverty came on slowly, Bibbs, but at last it was all there-and I didn't know how to be a stenographer.
"But there's nothing to forgive."
I said I couldn't make it plain!" he cried, despairingly.
"I-I heard her say-"
"I've had nothing but dreams," Bibbs said, desolately, "but they weren't like that.
I can be glad you came straight to me.
Don't you SEE?"
"And then-that I tried to marry-you!
You seemed to lean down-out of a rosy cloud-to be kind to me.
I hadn't thought of myself as-well, not as particularly captivating!"
Somewhere in the still air of the room there was a whispered word; it did not seem to come from Mary's parted lips, but he was aware of it. "Why?"
"Were desperately poor," she said.
"To day."
"Wait," she said.
He could not look at her, and he could not speak.
I had never cared for anybody, and I thought it might be there really WASN'T anything more than a kind of excited fondness.
"Help me up, Bibbs." Then, when she was once more upon her feet, she wiped her eyes and smiled upon him ruefully and faintly, but reassuringly, as if to tell him, in that way, that she knew he had not meant to hurt her.
"You 'heard her say' more than that. You 'heard her say' that we were bitterly poor, and on that account I tried first to marry your brother-and then-" But now she faltered, and it was only after a convulsive effort that she was able to go on.
"You gave me something to live for," he said.
"Never, never, never!" she cried, in a passion of tears.
It's something that happened since our walk this morning-yes, since you left me at noon.
"What did you say, Bibbs?" she asked, quietly.
"I thought so!
We always talked of me, not of you.
We were poor, and we weren't fitted to be.
"Yes," he said, just audibly.
"Never!
"You needn't tell me," she said.
"Oh NO-you-you don't understand."
But I hardly needed either of them to tell me.
I left her, and I wrote to your brother-just a quick scrawl.
Isn't there some way you could use the money without-without-"
Your sister in law told you, didn't she?"
"What is the matter?
I was the dependent-I did nothing but lean on you.
"Do you think I'm-in love with you?"
I saw something was terribly wrong when I-You look-" She paused, and he came in, not lifting his eyes to hers.
"What made you say that?
Mary drew a deep breath.
She looked at him, and slowly shook her head.
She met him at the door.
"I believe it, Bibbs.
Your father's won-you're going to do what he wants.
"No, no! And you must go now, Bibbs; I can't bear any more-please-"
And that smile of hers, so lamentable, but so faithfully friendly, misted his own eyes, for his shamefacedness lowered them no more.
"You could forgive me, Mary?"
"Those two!" she exclaimed, sharply; and then, with thoroughgoing contempt: "Lamhorn! That's like them!" She turned away, went to the bare little black mantel, and stood leaning upon it.
"I can't, I can't!
His tone and attitude did not change.
He followed her into the room where they always sat, and sank into a chair.
And we couldn't DO anything. You might wonder why I didn't 'try to be a stenographer'--and I wonder myself why, when a family loses its money, people always say the daughters 'ought to go and be stenographers.' It's curious!--as if a wave of the hand made you into a stenographer.
The room filled with strangeness in the long silence-the two were so strange to each other. At last she said:
"He walks kind of slow and stooped over, like."
Always when he crossed that threshold he had come with his head up and his wistful gaze seeking hers.
"You've given up-to your father," she said, slowly, "and then you came to ask me-" She broke off.
Bibbs, it was true: I did try to make Jim want to marry me.
"And the infernal insolence of them," mr Fyshe continued.
"Yes," assented mr Newberry, and then, leaning forwards in his chair and looking carefully about the corridors of the club, he spoke behind his hand and said, "And the mayor's the biggest grafter of the lot.
"You had thought, had you not, of offering it to the city?" said mr Fyshe.
"We thought, too, that our ground, having the tanneries and the chemical factory along the farther side of it, was an ideal place for-" he paused, seeking a mode of expressing his thought.
"It's a tyranny," he said.
"As to the government of this city," said mr Newberry, leaning back in a leather armchair at the Mausoleum Club and lighting a second cigar, "it's rotten, that's all."
"Abominable, is it not?" said mr Fyshe.
The word is a strong one.
He says that the city has been buying coal wholesale at the pit mouth at three fifty-utterly worthless stuff, he tells me.
You don't say!"
If we get a new council in they may name their own figure.' 'Good,' I said.
Sometimes one saw a picture in the paper and wondered for a moment who the person was; but on looking more closely and noticing what was written under it, one said, "Oh, I see, an alderman," and turned to something else.
Think of it!
Twenty names are hard to remember, and as a matter of fact, at the moment when this wave of feeling struck the city, nobody knew or cared who were aldermen, anyway.
"He did," said mr Fyshe.
Just think of it!"
"We did," said mr Furlong, "at a more or less nominal sum-four hundred thousand or whatever it might be.
"Heart and soul," answered mr Fyshe.
"Isn't it fine," whispered mr Spillikins to mr Newberry, "to see a set of men like these all going into a thing like this, not thinking of their own interests a bit?"
In a city that consumed a thousand tons of meat every week!
Thus it was that the light broke and spread and illuminated in all directions.
He refused it!"
"Our feeling was," went on mr Furlong, "that if the city wanted our land for the cemetery extension, it might have it at its own figure-four hundred thousand, half a million, in fact at absolutely any price, from four hundred thousand up, that they cared to put on it. We didn't regard it as a commercial transaction at all.
"There ought to be a criminal law for that sort of thing."
In Philadelphia they called it the spirit of William Penn.
Giants! he said, that was what they were.
"Well," said the heavy mayor, speaking slowly and cautiously and eyeing his henchman with quiet scrutiny, "you want to go pretty easy now, I tell you."
Of course we knew what they wanted. They meant us to hand them over fifty dollars each to stuff into their rascally pockets."
We felt that for such a purpose, almost sacred as it were, one would want as little bargaining as possible."
And the fellow took it, took it like a shot."
"Certainly not," said mr Fyshe, very quietly and decidedly, looking at mr Furlong in a searching way as he spoke.
"It's a fact," repeated mr Fyshe.
Let the boys know that just for a while the darker they keep the better."
In a city with a hundred and fifty deaths a week, and sometimes even better, an undertaker sat on the council!
And worse than that!
'Take your own case,' I said to him, 'how is it that you, a coal man, are not helping the city in this matter?
So when mr Newberry said "It's worse than Russia!" he meant it, every word.
"Refused it," gasped mr Spillikins, "I say!"
Our reward lay merely in the fact of selling it to them."
Imagine it!
"I went down the next day to see the deputy assistant (about a thing connected with the same matter), told him what I wanted and passed a fifty dollar bill across the counter and the fellow fairly threw it back at me, in a perfect rage.
As soon as people began to look into the condition of things in the city they were horrified at what they found.
"A bum city solicitor," said mr Overend, "and an infernal grafter for treasurer."
A hundred and fifty years (only a century and a half) too long for the franchise!
"They take money.
Said it was too long!
The thing was monstrous.
Why don't you supply the city?' He shook his head, 'I wouldn't do it at three fifty,' he said.
"Outrageous!" said mr Furlong.
mr Boulder, who owned, among other things, a stone quarry and an asphalt company, felt that the paving of the streets was a disgrace.
Nobody had ever really thought about them-that is to say, nobody on Plutoria Avenue.
There had come a moment-quite suddenly it seemed-when it occurred to everybody at the same time that the whole government of the city was rotten.
dr McTeague, blinking in the blue tobacco smoke, was there to stand for the church.
Not merely different in the matter of graft, but different, so mr Newberry said, in the calibre of the men.
"It's a splendid movement!" said mr Fyshe (he was a leading shareholder and director of the Citizens' Light), "what a splendid thing to think that we shan't have to deal for our new franchise with a set of corrupt rapscallions like these present aldermen.
mr Rasselyer Brown, mr Furlong senior and others were there, not from special interest in the light or traction questions, but, as they said themselves, from pure civic spirit.
But as for the present legislature-here mr Dick Overend sadly nodded assent in advance to what he knew was coming-as for the present legislature-well-mr
Everybody felt it at once.
"Oh! doubtless; he is a general favorite, May I presume on it so far as to ask leave to dismount and refresh my men, who compose a part of his squadron?"
"Upon my word, you improve most rapidly in externals," added the trooper, preserving his muscles in inflexible gravity.
Captain Lawton never could forgive the deception; his antipathies to his enemies were not very moderate, but this was adding an insult to his penetration that rankled deeply.
CHAPTER five
"But he is gone-how-when-and whither?"
"I fancied it then, from seeing you had covered such handsome black locks with that ugly old wig.
A twelvemonth had not yet elapsed, since Birch had been seen lingering near the headquarters of the commander in chief, and at a time when important movements were expected hourly to occur.
At length his sisters, with trembling hands, replaced his original disguise, the instruments of which had been carefully kept at hand by Caesar, in expectation of some sudden emergency.
"My business will be confined to a few questions, which, if freely answered, will instantly remove us from your dwelling."
So soon as the information of this fact was communicated to the officer whose duty it was to guard the avenues of the American camp, he dispatched Captain Lawton in pursuit of the peddler.
The heavy tread of the trooper, as he followed the black to the door of the parlor, rang in the ears of the females as it approached nearer and nearer, and drove the blood from their faces to their hearts, with a chill that nearly annihilated feeling.
He approached the youth with an air of comic gravity, and with a low bow, continued, "I am sorry for the severe cold you have in your head, sir."
Afterwards, neither woman nor peddler was to be found.
We have no spring; vegetation seems to leap into existence, instead of creeping, as in the same latitudes of the Old World; but how gracefully it retires!
"I prefer your ebony hair, from which you seem to have combed the powder with great industry.
At length Captain Lawton suspended for a moment his violent attacks on the buckwheat cakes, to inquire of the master of the house, if there was not a peddler of the name of Birch who lived in the valley at times.
"mr Harper," echoed the other, feeling a load removed from his heart, "yes, I had forgotten; but he is gone; and if there be anything wrong in his character, we are in entire ignorance of it; to me he was a total stranger."
"And where might that be, sir?" asked mr Wharton, conceiving it necessary to say something.
Acquainted with all the passes of the hills, and indefatigable in the discharge of his duty, the trooper had, with much trouble and toil, succeeded in effecting his object.
"If I catch him," cried the dragoon, while buttering another cake, "he will dangle from the limbs of one of his namesakes."
The officers were invited to take their morning's repast at the family breakfast table, and having made their arrangements without, the invitation was frankly accepted.
"And congress a halter," continued the commanding officer commencing anew on a fresh supply of the cakes.
The two subalterns struggled to conceal their smiles; but the captain resumed his breakfast with an eagerness that created a doubt, whether he ever expected to enjoy another.
Lawton regarded her with a mingled expression of pity and admiration; then shaking his head doubtingly, he continued,--
On getting sufficiently near, however, to a body of horse of more than double his own number, to distinguish countenances, Lawton plunged his rowels into his charger, and in a moment he was by the side of his commander.
In advance, with an officer, was a man attired in the dress of a countryman, who pointed in the direction of the cottage.
A short communication with the loquacious housekeeper followed the arrival of the main body of the troop, and the advance party remounting, the whole moved towards the Locusts with great speed.
In a few moments orders were given to some of the troops, and horsemen left the valley, at full speed, by its various roads.
"This gentleman!" repeated the other, turning to Captain Wharton, and contemplating his figure for a moment until the anxiety of his countenance gave place to a lurking smile.
The necessity of a supply from the dominion of Dinah soon, however, afforded another respite, of which Lawton availed himself.
"No, mr Caesar, running is not my trade." While speaking, he walked deliberately to the window, where the family were already collected in the greatest consternation.
"If he is poor, King George is a bad paymaster."
"Had I found him within, I should have placed him where he would enjoy life in the midst of society, for a short time at least."
As nothing could be seen likely to interrupt the enjoyments and harmony of such a day, the sisters descended to the parlor, with a returning confidence in their brother's security, and their own happiness.
Miss Peyton was a close observer of these movements of her niece, and advancing with an air of feminine dignity, inquired,--
Through Solway sands, through Taross moss, Blindfold, he knew the paths to cross: By wily turns, by desperate bounds, Had baffled Percy's best bloodhounds. In Eske, or Liddel, fords were none, But he would ride them, one by one; Alike to him was time or tide, December's snow or July's pride; Alike to him was tide or time, Moonless midnight or matin prime. --WALTER SCOTT.
"This gentleman-here-favored us with his company during the rain, and has not yet departed."
The countenance of Lawton changed instantly, and his assumed quaintness vanished.
It was my mistake; you will please to pardon it."
With the exception of the sentinels left to guard Captain Wharton, the dragoons mounted, and marched out to meet their comrades.
As yet none of the family had sufficient presence of mind to devise any means of security for Captain Wharton; but the danger now became too pressing to admit of longer delay, and various means of secreting him were hastily proposed; but they were all haughtily rejected by the young man, as unworthy of his character.
Young Wharton very composedly did as was required and stood an extremely handsome, well dressed young man.
"You have but little to apprehend from his character," answered the dragoon dryly.
"I cannot, without violating the truth, say it is," returned the dragoon.
Leave him with us; there is no reward, no sum, which I will not cheerfully pay."
The leader of the horse dismounted, and, followed by a couple of his men, he approached the outer door of the building, which was slowly and reluctantly opened for his admission by Caesar.
"You have no cause for alarm, ladies," said the officer, pausing a moment, and contemplating the pale faces around him.
The trooper rose instantly from the table, exclaiming,--
A man, whose colossal stature manifested the possession of vast strength, entered the room, and removing his cap, he saluted the family with a mildness his appearance did not indicate as belonging to his nature.
"Never mind," continued the captain; "I will have him yet before I'm a major."
"Dunwoodie!" exclaimed Frances, with a face in which the roses contended for the mastery with the paleness of apprehension.
He is not a spy; nothing but a desire to see his friends prompted him to venture so far from the regular army in disguise.
None of the watchfulness necessary in a war, in which similarity of language, appearance, and customs rendered prudence doubly necessary, was omitted by the cautious leader.
"Did you see banners in the clouds, and mistake Miss Peyton's Aeolian harp for rebellious music?"
"Run!" repeated the British officer, gathering himself up in military pride.
It was too late to retreat to the woods in the rear of the cottage, for he would unavoidably be seen, and, followed by a troop of horse, as inevitably taken.
Frances ventured to throw a timid glance at his figure as he entered, and saw at once the man from whose scrutiny Harvey Birch had warned them there was so much to be apprehended.
"Run-Massa Harry-run-if he love old Caesar, run-here come a rebel horse."
On reaching the road which led through the bottom of the valley, they turned their horses' heads to the north.
All the members of the Wharton family laid their heads on their pillows that night, with a foreboding of some interruption to their ordinary quiet.
"We shall always be happy to see Major Dunwoodie."
"What is the offense of poor Birch?" asked Miss Peyton, handing the dragoon a fourth dish of coffee.
He bowed again politely as he reentered the room, and walking up to Captain Wharton, said, with comic gravity,--
"Expresses are already on the road to announce to him our situation, and the intelligence will speedily bring him to this valley; unless, indeed, some private reasons may exist to make a visit particularly unpleasant."
Henry bowed to this remark in distant silence, but Sarah ventured to urge something in behalf of her brother.
He viewed the figure of Captain Wharton, as he stood proudly swelling with a pride that disdained further concealment, and exclaimed with great earnestness,--
"I!" exclaimed the captain, in surprise; "I have no cold in my head."
"That is strange, too," said the trooper, looking at the disconcerted host intently, "considering he is your next neighbor; he must be quite domestic, sir; and to the ladies it must be somewhat inconvenient.
"I did not know it until I reached them, and it was then too late to retreat," said Wharton sullenly.
None of the watchfulness, which was so necessary to their situation, was neglected by the wary partisan. Patrols were seen on the distant hills, taking their protecting circuit around their comrades, who were enjoying, in the midst of danger, a security that can only spring from the watchfulness of discipline and the indifference of habit.
"I came out, as my father has mentioned, to see my friends, understanding your parties to be at Peekskill, and near the Highlands, or surely I would not have ventured."
Still, the expression of his eye, though piercing, was not bad, and his voice, though deep and powerful, was far from unpleasant.
"He would make no bad ornament, suspended from one of those locusts before his own door," added the lieutenant.
"You appear so close an observer of things, I should like your opinion of it, sir," said Henry, removing the silk, and exhibiting the cheek free from blemish.
September, October, even November and December, compose the season for enjoyment in the open air; they have their storms, but they are distinct, and not of long continuance, leaving a clear atmosphere and a cloudless sky.
The ladies left the table to their guests, who proceeded, without much superfluous diffidence, to do proper honors to the hospitality of mr Wharton.
"Why," said the captain, laughing, "I do acknowledge a little inquietude myself-but how was it with you?" turning to his younger and evidently favorite sister, and tapping her cheek.
"Sir, your anxiety for your friend excuses your language," said Lawton, haughtily; "but you forget I am a Virginian, and a gentleman." Turning to the young man, he continued, "Were you ignorant, Captain Wharton, that our pickets have been below you for several days?"
"Captain Wharton, from my soul I pity you!"
Her dread on behalf of her brother was certainly greatly diminished; yet her form shook, her breathing became short and irregular, and her whole frame gave tokens of extraordinary agitation. Her eyes rose from the floor to the dragoon, and were again fixed immovably on the carpet-she evidently wished to utter something but was unequal to the effort.
The dragoon looked at him for a minute with the drollery that characterized his manner, and then continued,--
"I had a wish to break this mr Birch of his unsocial habits, and gave him a call this morning," he said.
When treason reaches the grade of general officers, Captain Wharton, it behooves the friends of liberty to be vigilant."
In fact, no small part of the bitterness expressed by Captain Lawton against the peddler, arose from the unaccountable disappearance of the latter, when intrusted to the custody of two of his most faithful dragoons.
It was glittering with the opening brilliancy of one of those lovely, mild days, which occur about the time of the falling of the leaf; and which, by their frequency, class the American autumn with the most delightful seasons of other countries.
Two or three of the dragoons now dismounted and disappeared; in a few minutes, however, they returned to the yard, followed by Katy, from whose violent gesticulations, it was evident that matters of no trifling concern were on the carpet.
"Quick, gentlemen, to your horses; there comes Dunwoodie," and, followed by his officers, he precipitately left the room.
The dragoon watched the movement with a continued smile, when, seeming to recollect himself, turning to the father, he proceeded,--
The captain himself moved his hand involuntarily to his head, and discovered that the trepidation of his sisters had left some of his natural hair exposed.
Nothing remained now, but to meet the impending examination with as much indifference as the family could assume.
I doubt not that that muslin in the window seat cost twice as much as he would have asked them for it."
His dark hair hung around his brow in profusion, though stained with powder which was worn at that day, and his face was nearly hid in the whiskers by which it was disfigured.
"Your list of the common extent of accomplishments," said Darcy, "has too much truth.
Her manners were pronounced to be very bad indeed, a mixture of pride and impertinence; she had no conversation, no style, no beauty.
Elizabeth was so much caught with what passed, as to leave her very little attention for her book; and soon laying it wholly aside, she drew near the card table, and stationed herself between mr Bingley and his eldest sister, to observe the game.
"And then you have added so much to it yourself, you are always buying books."
"Certainly not."
"It shows an affection for her sister that is very pleasing," said Bingley.
Chapter eight
Elizabeth joined them again only to say that her sister was worse, and that she could not leave her.
Her hair, so untidy, so blowsy!"
"Do you prefer reading to cards?" said he; "that is rather singular."
"That is capital," added her sister, and they both laughed heartily.
"But it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of any consideration in the world," replied Darcy.
But with such a father and mother, and such low connections, I am afraid there is no chance of it."
"Is Miss Darcy much grown since the spring?" said Miss Bingley; "will she be as tall as I am?"
But, in my opinion, it is a paltry device, a very mean art."
A woman must have a thorough knowledge of music, singing, drawing, dancing, and the modern languages, to deserve the word; and besides all this, she must possess a certain something in her air and manner of walking, the tone of her voice, her address and expressions, or the word will be but half deserved."
"She has nothing, in short, to recommend her, but being an excellent walker.
At five o'clock the two ladies retired to dress, and at half past six Elizabeth was summoned to dinner.
mrs Hurst and Miss Bingley both cried out against the injustice of her implied doubt, and were both protesting that they knew many women who answered this description, when mr Hurst called them to order, with bitter complaints of their inattention to what was going forward.
Her dirty petticoat quite escaped my notice."
They all paint tables, cover screens, and net purses.
She is now about Miss Elizabeth Bennet's height, or rather taller."
To this speech Bingley made no answer; but his sisters gave it their hearty assent, and indulged their mirth for some time at the expense of their dear friend's vulgar relations.
Bingley was quite uncomfortable; his sisters declared that they were miserable.
"Neglect!
Such a countenance, such manners!
I could hardly keep my countenance.
"I wish it may."
"With all my heart; I will buy Pemberley itself if Darcy will sell it."
Bingley urged mr Jones being sent for immediately; while his sisters, convinced that no country advice could be of any service, recommended an express to town for one of the most eminent physicians.
"I cannot comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days as these."
Elizabeth thanked him from her heart, and then walked towards the table where a few books were lying.
Miss Bingley was engrossed by mr Darcy, her sister scarcely less so; and as for mr Hurst, by whom Elizabeth sat, he was an indolent man, who lived only to eat, drink, and play at cards; who, when he found her to prefer a plain dish to a ragout, had nothing to say to her.
"Yes, and her petticoat; I hope you saw her petticoat, six inches deep in mud, I am absolutely certain; and the gown which had been let down to hide it not doing its office."
"She did, indeed, Louisa.
"All this she must possess," added Darcy, "and to all this she must yet add something more substantial, in the improvement of her mind by extensive reading."
On entering the drawing room she found the whole party at loo, and was immediately invited to join them; but suspecting them to be playing high she declined it, and making her sister the excuse, said she would amuse herself for the short time she could stay below, with a book.
His anxiety for Jane was evident, and his attentions to herself most pleasing, and they prevented her feeling herself so much an intruder as she believed she was considered by the others.
"I am astonished," said Miss Bingley, "that my father should have left so small a collection of books.
"Yes, I do comprehend a great deal in it."
"It ought to be good," he replied, "it has been the work of many generations."
She is a great reader, and has no pleasure in anything else."
And so extremely accomplished for her age!
"Yes, all of them, I think.
"I am talking of possibilities, Charles."
With a renewal of tenderness, however, they returned to her room on leaving the dining parlour, and sat with her till summoned to coffee. She was still very poorly, and Elizabeth would not quit her at all, till late in the evening, when she had the comfort of seeing her sleep, and when it seemed to her rather right than pleasant that she should go downstairs herself.
Her performance on the pianoforte is exquisite."
When she was only fifteen, there was a man at my brother Gardiner's in town so much in love with her that my sister in law was sure he would make her an offer before we came away.
Had she found Jane in any apparent danger, mrs Bennet would have been very miserable; but being satisfied on seeing her that her illness was not alarming, she had no wish of her recovering immediately, as her restoration to health would probably remove her from Netherfield.
She was very equal, therefore, to address mr Bingley on the subject of the ball, and abruptly reminded him of his promise; adding, that it would be the most shameful thing in the world if he did not keep it.
It must be an amusing study."
mrs Bennet was profuse in her acknowledgments.
"When I am in the country," he replied, "I never wish to leave it; and when I am in town it is pretty much the same.
"She is a great deal too ill to be moved.
I wonder who first discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away love!"
"Oh! dear, yes; but you must own she is very plain.
"Whatever I do is done in a hurry," replied he; "and therefore if I should resolve to quit Netherfield, I should probably be off in five minutes.
mrs Bennet, who fancied she had gained a complete victory over him, continued her triumph.
The country is a vast deal pleasanter, is it not, mr Bingley?"
I know we dine with four and twenty families."
"You quite mistook mr Darcy.
Lady Lucas herself has often said so, and envied me Jane's beauty.
But, however, he did not.
"Removed!" cried Bingley.
"I am sure," she added, "if it was not for such good friends I do not know what would become of her, for she is very ill indeed, and suffers a vast deal, though with the greatest patience in the world, which is always the way with her, for she has, without exception, the sweetest temper I have ever met with.
Bingley met them with hopes that mrs Bennet had not found Miss Bennet worse than she expected.
I do not trust my own partiality.
But that gentleman," looking at Darcy, "seemed to think the country was nothing at all."
She performed her part indeed without much graciousness, but mrs Bennet was satisfied, and soon afterwards ordered her carriage.
"You begin to comprehend me, do you?" cried he, turning towards her.
"And so ended his affection," said Elizabeth impatiently.
Everybody was surprised, and Darcy, after looking at her for a moment, turned silently away.
"It must not be thought of.
"That is exactly what I should have supposed of you," said Elizabeth.
"You may depend upon it, Madam," said Miss Bingley, with cold civility, "that Miss Bennet will receive every possible attention while she remains with us."
"Did Charlotte dine with you?"
I do not like to boast of my own child, but to be sure, Jane-one does not often see anybody better looking.
"I wish I might take this for a compliment; but to be so easily seen through I am afraid is pitiful."
"Oh! yes-I understand you perfectly."
"But people themselves alter so much, that there is something new to be observed in them for ever."
Nothing but concern for Elizabeth could enable Bingley to keep his countenance.
He only meant that there was not such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in the town, which you must acknowledge to be true."
She would not listen, therefore, to her daughter's proposal of being carried home; neither did the apothecary, who arrived about the same time, think it at all advisable.
The note was immediately dispatched, and its contents as quickly complied with.
It is what everybody says.
mr Jones says we must not think of moving her.
It does not follow that a deep, intricate character is more or less estimable than such a one as yours."
She longed to speak, but could think of nothing to say; and after a short silence mrs Bennet began repeating her thanks to mr Bingley for his kindness to Jane, with an apology for troubling him also with Lizzy.
I do not know a place in the country that is equal to Netherfield.
mrs Bennet, accompanied by her two youngest girls, reached Netherfield soon after the family breakfast.
I fancy she was wanted about the mince pies.
"Yes, she called yesterday with her father.
After sitting a little while with Jane, on Miss Bingley's appearance and invitation, the mother and three daughters all attended her into the breakfast parlour.
"I did not know before," continued Bingley immediately, "that you were a studier of character.
I shall tell Colonel Forster it will be quite a shame if he does not."
They have at least that advantage."
"Indeed I have, sir," was her answer.
"Yes, indeed," cried mrs Bennet, offended by his manner of mentioning a country neighbourhood.
His sister was less delicate, and directed her eyes towards mr Darcy with a very expressive smile.
"Did you notice to whom I bowed?" he asked.
Now he pointed with one wing to this nesting place, and said, "How would you like to build a nest there?"
And she strutted and leaped and whooped almost as loudly as he.
It made him feel very badly to have her leave him so.
He began to fear that she didn't like him; and the next time the Cranes danced he didn't bow to her so much, but he strutted and leaped and whooped even more.
"Of course I am not frightened now that I know who it is."
A Crane would stand on one leg, with his head against his breast, so quietly that one might think him asleep: but as soon as anything eatable came near, he would bend his body, stretch out his neck, open his long, slender bill, and swallow it at one gulp.
Those who hunted in the water, did so very quietly.
The flying Cranes trumpeted back, "We will!
That night they slept near together, as they had done when with the large flock, and one Crane kept awake to watch for danger while the others tucked their heads under their wings.
"I want to marry and have a home."
He didn't know just how to tell what he wanted to, but he had seen another Crane bowing to her, and was afraid she might marry him if he was not quick.
As she stalked off toward the pond, she passed him, and she said over her shoulder, "I should think you would be hungry.
One morning, when the Cranes awakened, a fine young fellow began to strut up and down before the rest, bowing low, and leaping high into the air, and every now and then whooping as loudly as he could.
They were fine looking, even when they slept, and some people never look well unless they are awake.
After a while, he trumpeted softly, as though he were just trying his voice.
So he flew off to the fishing place where he had seen her the day before, and he stalked along to where she was, and stood close to her while she fished.
I am almost starved." After she had gone, he wondered why she had said that.
The Gulls, who had spent the winter by the pond, screamed to each other, "The Crane dance has begun!" Even the Frogs, who are afraid of Cranes, crept quietly near to look on.
Then they stood and fished for a long time without saying anything.
Now it was not at all queer that she should have seen him dancing, for all the eight Cranes had danced together, but he thought it very wonderful.
When they were eating, the young fellow who had begun the dance, stalked up to the sister of one of his friends, as she stood in the edge of the pond, gracefully balanced on one leg.
"I saw you dancing this morning," she said.
I am going now." Still, although he was such a young Crane and had never danced until this year, he began to think that she liked him and enjoyed having him near.
"No," said he.
He wondered why he could not come too, although everybody knows that a Crane catches more if he fishes alone.
You ought to see what big mouthfuls I can take."
That pleased him, of course, because Cranes think that big mouthfuls are the best kind, so he tipped his head to one side, and watched his neck as the mouthful slid down to his stomach.
One fine day in spring, a great flock of Sand hill Cranes came from the south.
She did not turn her head towards him, although, having such a long and slender neck, she could have done so with very little trouble.
"Let me help you," he said.
He pitied short necked people.
He often did this while he was eating.
Then he would seem to fall asleep again.
They were brownish gray, with no bright markings at all, and their long legs gave them a very genteel look.
It was not long before another young Crane began to skip and hop and circle around, drooping his wings and whooping as he went.
He was so excited that his knees shook, and he had to stand on both legs at once to keep from falling.
They had eaten nothing for several days, and were soon hunting for food, some on land, and some in the water, for they had stopped to feed and rest.
She looked where he had pointed, "I?" she said.
This went on until they were so tired they could hardly stand, and had to stop to eat and rest.
They were those who thought of staying there for the summer.
He could see it from the outside, a big bunch slowly moving downward.
When the flock arose to fly on again, eight Cranes stayed behind.
THE DANCE OF THE SAND HILL CRANES
If he had been an older Crane, and understood the ways of the world a little better, he would have known that she meant, "Aren't you coming to that fishing place?
You may be very sure he was glad to go, and as he stalked off with her, he led the way to a charming nesting place.
The tops of their heads were covered with warty red skin, from which grew short black feathers that looked more like hairs.
She changed, and stood on her other leg.
They were very, very happy, and after a while-but that is another story.
They watched their friends fly away, and stood on the ground with their necks and bills uplifted and mouths open, while they trumpeted or called out, "Good bye!
They were a fine company to look upon, orderly, strong, and dignified. Their long necks were stretched out straight ahead, their long legs straight behind, and they beat the air with slow, regular strokes of the strong wings.
Let us go off into the woods and rest."
"I am sorry," he said.
When she flew away, she said, "That is a very pleasant fishing place." He stood on the other leg for a while, and thought how sweet her voice sounded as she said it.
He wanted a chance to tell her something, yet, whenever he tried to, it seemed to stick in his bill.
They would also have trumpeted, but more softly, to tell him that they were coming after.
I can take bigger mouthfuls than that.
When they were all tired out and had stopped dancing, she said to him, "I am so tired!
He wondered what it was.
Stop for us in the fall!"
They were flying high and quietly because the weather was bright. If it had been stormy, or if they had been flying by night, as they usually did, they would have stayed nearer the ground, and their leader would have trumpeted loudly to let his followers know which way he was going.
But she suddenly raised her head, and said, "There! I have forgotten something," and flew off, as she had done the day before.
As they came near the pond, they flew lower and lower, until all swept down to the earth and alighted, tall and stately, by the edge of the water.
Then she gave a pretty little start, and said, "Oh, are you here?
She stood with her head on her breast and looked at the water.
"I bowed to her sister." He thought that was a very clever thing to say.
How you did frighten me!"
"To my sister?" she asked carelessly, as she drew one of her long tail feathers through her beak.
"I did not want to frighten you." And he looked at her admiringly.
Don't forget us!"
Long afterward he asked her what she had forgotten and she said she couldn't remember-that she never could remember what she had forgotten.
Every Crane danced, brothers, and sisters, and all, and as they did so, they looked lovingly at each other, and admired the fine steps and enjoyed the whooping.
Then he thought that, if she liked the place so well, she might come there again the next day.
On the day when the grass was cut, they had sat quietly in their trees and looked genteel.
"What is it to be genteel?" asked a Grasshopper suddenly.
"That may be," said the Brown Walking Stick, "but they do not belong to our family." She spoke as if those who did not belong to her family might be good but could never be genteel.
The young Grasshoppers were kicking up their feet, the Ants were scrambling around as busy as ever, and life went on quite as though neither men nor Horses had ever entered the meadow.
When he was young and green he had six, then came a dreadful day when a hungry Nuthatch saw him, flew down, caught him, and carried him up a tree.
You would have thought her a blade of grass.
"Why," said the Five Legged Walking Stick, "it is just to be genteel.
They had nothing to do but to eat and sleep, and they did not often take the trouble to think.
She thought the meadow people very common.
It is too much trouble to find a place."
"Why can't they learn to move slowly and gracefully?
That was because he crawled into a clump of ferns and kept very still.
Perhaps they can't help being fat, but they might at least act genteel."
They had never been taught to do anything useful, or to think much about other people.
Their feelers were held quite close together, and they did not move their feet at all, only swayed their bodies gracefully from side to side.
He knew just what to expect, so when the Nuthatch set him down on the bark to look at him, he unhooked his feet from the bark and tumbled to the ground.
Three Walking Sticks from the forest had come to live in the big maple tree near the middle of the meadow.
Now they were on the ground, hunting through the flat piles of cut grass for some fresh and juicy bits to eat.
They said it was not genteel to hurry, no matter what happened.
"Yes, indeed!" said his sister.
One day the Tree Frog was under the tree when the large Brown Walking Stick decided to lay some eggs.
It is true that the brother had the same kind of legs as his sister, but he did not have the same number.
How very common!"
His relatives all waved their feelers, one at a time, and said, "Ah, he has the true Walking Stick spirit!" Then they paid no more attention to him, and after a while he and his sister and their green little friend left the forest for the meadow.
She did not quite wish it, you understand, and would never have thought of it if she had turned brown.
It was the young green one who spoke at last.
When they were hungry they ate some leaves, and never thought what they should eat the next time that they happened to be hungry.
But then, if one is a Walking Stick, you know, one does not care so very much about one's family.
These Walking Sticks had grown up the best way they could, with no father or mother to care for them.
They felt that they were a little better than those meadow people who rushed and scrambled and worked from morning until night, and they showed very plainly how they felt.
The Nuthatch tried to catch him and broke off one of his legs, but she never found him again, although she looked and looked and looked and looked.
If you had passed them in a hay field, you would surely have thought each a stem of hay, unless you happened to see them move.
"Some mothers do not think it too much trouble to be careful where they lay eggs."
The other Walking Stick, their friend, was younger and green.
His sister came and looked at him and said, "Now if you were only a Spider it would not be long before you would have six legs again."
He had the same long, slender body, the same long feelers, and the same sort of long, slender legs.
THE DIGNIFIED WALKING STICKS.
Then there was a great scrambling and the Crickets frolicked with them.
"Ah," said the Five Legged Walking Stick, "what scrambling!
Nobody knew exactly why they had left the forest, where all their sisters and cousins and aunts lived. Perhaps they were not happy with their relatives.
To act as you see us act, and to----"
The Five Legged Walking Stick looked much like his sister.
"A place?" said the Brown Walking Stick, waving her long and slender feelers to and fro.
The Walking Sticks looked very uncomfortable, and the brother and sister could not think of anything to say.
When they were tired they went to sleep, and when they had slept enough they awakened.
"A place?
The Tree Frog was also out, sitting in a cool, damp corner of the grass rows.
Oh, no! I think they will hatch where they are.
"I was a bold young fellow, and when I saw a great white thing among the trees up yonder, I made up my mind to see what it was.
And they all answered, "We never will."
All the wonderful things of which he told had happened before he came to the meadow, and while he was still a young Frog.
They even made some of them help do their work.
I tried to hop away, and-bump! went my head against something.
The queerest thing about it was, that the smaller creatures seemed to make the larger ones do whatever they wanted them to.
I tried it again and again, and every time I hurt my head.
I was hatched in the pond beyond the farm house, and ate my way from the egg to the water outside like any other Frog.
There I rested until sunset, and then began my evening song. While I was singing, one of the people from the house came out and found me.
None of his friends had known him then, but he was an honest fellow, and they were sure that everything he told was true: besides, they must be true, for how could a body ever think out such remarkable tales from his own head?
My heart thumped as though it would burst, and I tried my best to get away from her.
I got close up to them both, and saw strange, big creatures going in and out of the red thing-the barn, as I afterward found it was called.
Twice I was caught and put back.
The Katydids who stayed near said that he croaked in his sleep, and that, you know, is not what well and happy Frogs should do.
I had enough to eat; but anybody who has been free cannot be happy shut in.
And, friends, the best way I can ever repay your kindness to me, is to tell you to never, never, never, never go near the farm house."
"It makes my skin dry to think of it now.
"I heard you," cried the Katydid, "and I wondered what was the matter."
"And at the top," continued the Tree Frog, "was something white over the doorway into my prison.
She picked me up and carried me inside.
Some of the other Frogs started with me, but they stopped along the way, and at last I was alone.
"You don't say!" exclaimed a Grasshopper.
There I had to live for most of the summer.
I watched my chance, and three times I got out when the little door was not quite closed.
At first, when she put me down on a stone in some water, I did not know that I was in prison.
Even the Garter Snake, who had been there the longest, and the old Cricket, who had lived in the farm yard, could tell no such exciting tales as the Tree Frog.
Oh, how frightened I was!
She didn't hurt me at all, but she would not let me go.
"As you may guess, I stayed there a long time, watching these strange creatures work.
In the pleasant weather, of course, I went to the top of the ladder, and when it was going to rain I would go down again.
"When I was a little fellow," he said, "I was strong and well, and could leap farther than any other Frog of my size.
We were all in a hurry to be Frogs, and often talked of what we would do and how far we would travel when we were grown.
You may not believe me, but what I tell you is true.
Yet when I drew back, I could see no wall there.
It seemed to me that just stretching my legs was enough to make me wild with joy.
"I had a beautiful, wiggly little tail with which to swim through the waters of the pond; but as my legs grew larger and stronger, my tail grew littler and weaker, until there wasn't any tail left.
I remember the day when my hind legs began to grow, and how the other Tadpoles crowded around me in the water and swam close to me to feel the two little bunches that were to be legs.
In all the meadow there was nobody who could tell such interesting stories as the old Tree Frog.
"Oh, how happy we were then!
I hopped along as fast as I could, for I did not then know enough to be afraid.
The largest creatures had four legs, and some of them had horns. The smaller creatures had only two legs on which to walk, and two other limbs of some sort with which they lifted and carried things.
Perhaps I ought to say, 'like any other Tadpole,' for, of course, I began life as a Tadpole.
I saw two of the larger ones tied to a great load of dried grass and pulling it into the barn.
I tell you the truth, my friends, those walls were made of something which one could see through."
After they stopped hunting, the wind blew the door open, and I hopped out."
There was a great red thing in the yard beside it, but I liked the white one better.
"She put me in a very queer prison.
"Matter enough," said the Tree Frog.
In the bottom were water and a stone, and from the bottom to the top was a ladder.
One day when many of the meadow people were gathered around him, he told them his story.
Every time that I went up or down, those dreadful creatures would put their faces up close to my prison, and I could hear a roaring sound which meant they were talking and laughing.
When he first came to his home by the elm tree he was very thin, and looked as though he had been sick.
"Wonderful!" exclaimed all the meadow people; "wonderful, indeed!"
Well, I came right here, and you were all kind to me, but for a long time I could not sleep without dreaming that I was back in prison, and I would croak in my sleep at the thought of it."
"I did have when I was a Tadpole," said the Tree Frog.
"They certainly are," agreed the Snapping Turtle, who was beginning to feel much better natured.
"I think the Ducks spoil their children," said she.
The Snapping Turtle felt cross to day, and had come to see if a talk with her would not make him feel better.
"Most of them," remarked the Turtles.
"What for?
After that his neighbors began to understand him better and he was less grumpy, so that those who wore shells were soon quite fond of him.
They are no trouble at all."
One day she was hanging over the pond in a very graceful position, with her tail twisted carelessly around a willow branch.
None of us Adders do.
THE CLEVER WATER ADDER
"What a rude person she is!" they said.
"What did you say?" asked the Adder who, like all her family, was a little deaf.
"It must be dreadfully hot for the shore people," she said.
Why, mine hatch as soon as the eggs are laid, and go hunting at once.
The Water Adder laughed in her snaky way, and showed her sharp teeth.
"How stupid people are," she said.
"Oh, nothing," replied the Water Adder, swinging her head back and forth and looking at the scales on her body.
With the Water Adders it was different.
"Reach your tail with your head?" asked the Water Adder in her sweetest voice.
"I have heard," she said, "that when the Wild Ducks bring their children here to swim, they do not always take so many home as they brought."
The larger fishes kept away on account of their children, who were small and tender.
"What is the matter?" asked the Mud Turtle.
"I never close my eyes.
"How they must wish for shells!"
The Minnows said they could not bear the looks of the Adders-they had such ugly mouths and such quick motions.
The Water Adder saw that he was provoked by what she had said, so she talked about something else.
mrs Belostoma may go with me, if she feels like doing so after laying her eggs here.
"I wish," said he, "that the chilly feeling would be big enough to go way through to their bellies.
"They make such a fuss over them, and they are not nearly so bright as my children.
"It isn't," said the Adder decidedly.
One might think that the Sand Hill Cranes, the Fish Hawks, and the other shore families would have been good friends for them, but when they called, the Adders were always away.
They said that he was cruel, and that he had a bad habit of using his stout sucking tube to sting with.
"I know what you mean," said the Snapping Turtle, "and you know what you mean, but I have to eat something, and if I am swimming under the water and a Duckling paddles along just above me and sticks his foot into my mouth, I am likely to swallow him before I think."
I even think that some of the Turtles are a little queer, don't you?"
The Yellow Brown Frog wished that the Adders could be scared, badly scared, some time: so scared that a chilly feeling would run down their backs from their heads clear to the tips of their tails.
And I shall flutter and sprawl around the light, and sting people who bother me, and have a happy time." That was Belostoma's way.
The small people without shells were afraid of them, and the Clams and Pond Snails never called upon any one.
I shall go anyway.
They were good-natured enough, yet the Mud Turtles and Snapping Turtle were the only ones who ever called upon them and found them at home.
After a while the Snapping Turtle said, "But then, you know, we are not stupid."
"Nothing is easier." And she wound herself around the willow branch in another graceful position, and took the tip of her tail daintily between her teeth.
Let them come in swimming with their children, if they are warm and tired."
"Ouch!
She was using her tongue in this way most of the time.
She could swim very fast, could creep, glide, catch hold of things with her tail, hang herself from the branch of a tree, lift her head far into the air, leap, dart, bound, and dive. All her family could do these things, but she could do them a little the best.
Belostoma did not have many friends among the smaller people, and only a few among the larger ones.
"We have thought so," said the Mud Turtle.
"I never worry about mine," said the Mud Turtle, "although their mother thinks it is not safe for them all to sleep at once, as they do on a log in the sunshine."
Nobody can ever say that we close our eyes to danger." They couldn't shut their eyes if they wanted to, because they had no eyelids, but she did not speak of that.
"It is useful in feeling of things," she said, "and then, I have always thought it quite becoming." She could see herself reflected in the still water below her, and she noticed how prettily the dark brown of her back shaded into the white of her belly.
To fly with?
We would rather be stupid and polite."
Their bellies are only the front side of their backs, anyway," he added, "because they are so thin." Of course this was a dreadful wish to make, but people said that one of the Adders had frightened the Yellow Brown Frog so that he never got over it, and this was the reason he felt so.
The Clever Water Adder spoke first of the weather.
Ouch!"
Then they swam away, pushing themselves quickly through the water with swift strokes of their hairy oar legs.
The Mud Turtle was tired of having the children sprawl around him, and of mrs Mud Turtle telling about the trouble she had to get the right kind of food.
"Ouch!" exclaimed the Snapping Turtle.
Her slender forked tongue was darting in and out of her open mouth.
"All of them," she said, "except us Adders and the Turtles.
The Mud Turtle smiled. "I have heard," she went on, "that when young Ducks dive head first, they are quite sure to come up again, but that when they dive feet first, they never come up."
"Always trying to show how much more clever she is than other people.
People said that the Adders were afraid of them.
And perhaps that was so.
Still, Belostoma did not care; he said, "A Giant Water Bug does not always live in the water.
After that, I shall fly away on my wedding trip.
The Snapping Turtle and a Mud Turtle Father were in the shallow water below her.
The Snapping Turtle was left to himself a great deal until the day when he and Belostoma drove away the boys.
Probably not.
Some fifty paces more, and he stopped.
These vessels had a mast on each deck.
Providence.
About that time many events had occurred at sea, and amongst others, the defeat of the Baron de Pointi's eight ships off Cape Carnero, which had driven the whole French fleet into refuge at Gibraltar; so that the Channel was swept of every man of war, and merchant vessels were able to sail backwards and forwards between London and Rotterdam, without a convoy.
The foremast was called Paul, the mainmast peter--the ship being sailed by these two masts, as the Church was guided by her two apostles.
Hence the silence on the two decks connected by the gangway.
But one step to descend, and Homo in a bound, and Gwynplaine in a stride, were on board.
The wolf appeared to him in a halo of light.
And it had just fallen upon him.
Under the decks were the cabins, the doors of which opened into the hold and were lighted by glazed portholes.
In any case, some one knows it for him.
In stowing the cargo a passage was left between the packages of which it consisted.
He was looking earnestly at Gwynplaine.
Does it not seem that the law and the will of nature would have dictated Gwynplaine's headlong rush to throw himself upon life, happiness, love regained?
The whole thing was in a state of dislocation.
CHAPTER one
At the bottom of this platform, which was a kind of wharf on piles, a black mass could be made out, which was a tolerably large vessel.
The shafts, stuck up, looked like two arms raised to heaven.
The passengers, if, as was likely, there were any, were already on board, the vessel being ready to sail, and the cargo stowed, as was apparent from the state of the hold, which was full of bales and cases.
Gwynplaine, staggering under the weight of his emotion, looked around him, while the wolf went and lay down silently by his chain.
A gangway was thrown, like a Chinese bridge, from one deck to the other, over the centre of the hold.
Mouldy and out of shape, it tottered in decay.
On the deck of the vessel, near the prow, was a glimmer, like the last flicker of a night light.
Homo always followed his instinct and did his duty, but with the pensive reserve of an outlaw.
The gates of Paradise reopen; but before he enters he examines his ground.
He advanced a few steps, and then looked back to see if Gwynplaine was following him.
Perhaps he does.
Homo and Gwynplaine shortly reached the brink.
But they were, doubtless, lying asleep in the cabins below, as the passage was to take place during the night.
The wolf had almost run across the wharf; once on board, he slackened his pace into a discreet walk.
What an apparition!
His eyes sparkled in the darkness.
Homo turned his head now and then, to make sure that Gwynplaine was behind him.
He feels a vague obligation to become a guide.
As we have already said, it often happens in life that some mighty help which we have held to have come from below has, in reality, come from above.
The paper boats made by children are of a somewhat similar shape.
It was the same that he had seen from the shore.
In bad weather, both flaps of the gangway were lowered, on the right and left, on hinges, thus making a roof over the hold; so that the ship, in heavy seas, was hermetically closed.
There was a lantern on the deck, close to the foremast, by the gleam of which was sketched in black, on the dim background of the night, what Gwynplaine recognized to be Ursus's old four wheeled van.
Still preceding Gwynplaine, he passed along the after deck, and across the gangway.
As for the crew, they were probably having their supper in the men's cabin, whilst awaiting the hour fixed for sailing, which was now rapidly approaching.
Gwynplaine, having reached the gangway, perceived a light in front of him.
What was this animal?
He still wagged his tail-no longer joyfully, however, but with the sad and feeble wag of a dog troubled in his mind.
There are cases in which the dog feels that he should follow his master; others, in which he should precede him.
The decks, fore and aft, were, as we have already said, without bulwarks.
For a moment Gwynplaine was like a drunken man, so great is the shock of Hope's mighty return.
Gwynplaine was doing so.
Having been so long out of service, it had become dreadfully rickety; it leant over feebly on one side; it had become quite paralytic from disuse; and, moreover, it was suffering from that incurable malady-old age.
Homo wagged his tail, and went on.
This poor wooden tenement, cart and hut combined, in which his childhood had rolled along, was fastened to the bottom of the mast by thick ropes, of which the knots were visible at the wheels.
The wheels were warped.
Certainty, or at least the light which leads to it, regained; the sudden intervention of some mysterious clemency possessed, perhaps, by destiny; life saying, "Behold me!" in the darkest recess of the grave; the very moment in which all expectation has ceased bringing back health and deliverance; a place of safety discovered at the most critical instant in the midst of crumbling ruins-Homo was all this to Gwynplaine.
A wooden platform appeared on the right.
But one was left to strike him-the thunderbolt of joy.
Having reached the river, the wolf led down the narrow tongue of land which bordered the Thames.
A WATCH DOG MAY BE A GUARDIAN ANGEL.
Then he began to lick his hands again.
In such cases the passengers do not appear on deck till they awake the following morning.
Who knows all the mysterious forms assumed by God?
The lining, the floor, and the axletrees seemed worn out with fatigue. Altogether, it presented an indescribable appearance of beggary and prostration.
Homo wagged his tail.
Without noise or bark he pushed forward on his silent way.
The deck was clear, and no stir was perceptible.
It was a long platform, floored and tarred, supported by a network of joists, and under which flowed the river.
This slope shelved down to the Thames; and Gwynplaine, guided by Homo, descended it.
Then the animal takes the direction of sense.
His imperturbable scent is a confused power of vision in what is twilight to us.
As you admit that the first man came into existence without father or mother-whether it be gradually or at once-there can remain no doubt that a man without a human father is also possible and admissible; you cannot consider this impossible; otherwise, you are illogical.
No, they are merely symbols.
Christ says, "The Father is in the Son, and the Son is in the Father." Was Christ within God, or God within Christ?
Is it better for a man to be created from a living substance or from earth?
The materialists believe that there must be marriage, and say that a living body cannot be created from a lifeless body, and without male and female there cannot be fecundation.
seventeen: THE BIRTH OF CHRIST
Sleeping is the state of mystery; wakefulness is the state of manifestation.
eighteen: THE GREATNESS OF CHRIST IS DUE TO HIS PERFECTIONS
Then surely the first man had neither father nor mother, for the existence of man is phenomenal.
For this union of the male and female exists in all living beings and plants.
For example, the power of intellect is not sensible; none of the inner qualities of man is a sensible thing; on the contrary, they are intellectual realities.
Even ethereal matter, the forces of which are said in physics to be heat, light, electricity and magnetism, is an intellectual reality, and is not sensible.
In the same way, nature, also, in its essence is an intellectual reality and is not sensible; the human spirit is an intellectual, not sensible reality.
Therefore, to explain the reality of the spirit-its condition, its station-one is obliged to give explanations under the forms of sensible things because in the external world all that exists is sensible.
Moreover, the expression which john uses in regard to the disciples proves that they also are from the Heavenly Father.
If being without a father is a virtue, Adam is greater and more excellent than all the Prophets and Messengers, for He had neither father nor mother.
These expressions are metaphors, allegories, mystic explanations in the world of signification.
These are only intellectual states, but when you desire to express them outwardly, you call knowledge light, and ignorance darkness.
So love is a mental reality and not sensible; for this reality the ear does not hear, the eye does not see, the smell does not perceive, the taste does not discern, the touch does not feel.
The theologians say: "Then from your statement it has become evident and clear that mankind is phenomenal upon the globe, and not eternal.
Sleeping is the state of silence; wakefulness is the state of speech.
On the contrary, this is an intellectual state which is expressed in a sensible figure.
We come to the explanation of the words of Baha'u'llah when He says: "O king!
From these verses it is obvious that the being of a disciple also is not created by physical power, but by the spiritual reality.
No, in the name of God!
That which causes honor and greatness is the splendor and bounty of the divine perfections.
Briefly, they say a man without a human father cannot be imagined.
Thus in the Old Testament it is said that God appeared as a pillar of fire: this does not signify the material form; it is an intellectual reality which is expressed by a sensible image.
For example, it is a Persian and Arabic expression to say that the earth was asleep, and the spring came, and it awoke; or the earth was dead, and the spring came, and it revived.
Sleeping and waking is passing from one state to another.
The substance of Adam's physical life was earth, but the substance of Abraham was pure sperm; it is certain that the pure and chaste sperm is superior to earth.
But Christ was born and came into existence from the Holy Spirit.
One is the knowledge of things perceptible to the senses-that is to say, things which the eye, or ear, or smell, or taste, or touch can perceive, which are called objective or sensible.
Furthermore, in the first chapter of the Gospel of john, verses twelve and thirteen, it is said: "But as many as received Him, to them gave He power to become the sons of God, even to them that believed on His name:
Briefly, the Holy Manifestations have ever been, and ever will be, Luminous Realities; no change or variation takes place in Their essence. Before declaring Their manifestation, They are silent and quiet like a sleeper, and after Their manifestation, They speak and are illuminated, like one who is awake.
In explaining these intellectual realities, one is obliged to express them by sensible figures because in exterior existence there is nothing that is not material.
The materialists insist upon this belief, and the theologians reply: "Is this globe eternal or phenomenal?" The materialists answer that, according to science and important discoveries, it is established that it is phenomenal; in the beginning it was a flaming globe, and gradually it became temperate; a crust was formed around it, and upon this crust plants came into existence, then animals, and finally man.
Answer.--In regard to this question, theologians and materialists disagree. The theologians believe that Christ was born of the Holy Spirit, but the materialists think this is impossible and inadmissible, and that without doubt He had a human father.
For example, in former times the telegraph, which causes the East and the West to communicate, was unknown but not impossible; photography and phonography were unknown but not impossible."
So the symbol of knowledge is light, and of ignorance, darkness; but reflect, is knowledge sensible light, or ignorance sensible darkness?
Hence it is evident that the holy reality, meaning the real existence of every great man, comes from God and owes its being to the breath of the Holy Spirit.
Question.--How was Christ born of the Holy Spirit?
sixteen: OUTWARD FORMS AND SYMBOLS MUST BE USED TO CONVEY INTELLECTUAL CONCEPTIONS
This exaltation and this progress are spiritual states and intellectual realities, but to explain them you are obliged to have recourse to sensible figures because in the exterior world there is nothing that is not sensible.
So the sun, because it can be seen, is said to be objective; and in the same way sounds are sensible because the ear hears them; perfumes are sensible because they can be inhaled and the sense of smell perceives them; foods are sensible because the palate perceives their sweetness, sourness or saltness; heat and cold are sensible because the feelings perceive them. These are said to be sensible realities.
And they think that not only with man, but also with animals and plants, it is impossible.
Certainly it is better if he be created from a living substance.
The honor and greatness of Christ is not due to the fact that He did not have a human father, but to His perfections, bounties and divine glory.
If the greatness of Christ is His being fatherless, then Adam is greater than Christ, for He had neither father nor mother.
Sleeping is the condition of repose, and wakefulness is the condition of movement.
This is an intellectual or spiritual state, to explain which you are obliged to have recourse to sensible figures.
Impossible to make out his way.
He was in a dark narrow passage, closed, some few paces further on, by a curtain.
It was no one. It was only the reflection of himself in a mirror, dressed as a nobleman.
It was still so early that there were no signs of life without.
At each step he was stopped by some magnificent object which appeared to retard his exit, and to be unwilling to let him pass.
He examined the quaint arrangements of the rambling building, and their yet quainter fittings.
Passages, niches, alcoves, and secret recesses.
The rooms never came to an end.
Their staircases twisted, turned, ascended, and descended.
A house for Mab or a jewel for Geo.
It was as if some magician had caught up the month of June and imprisoned it in a labyrinth.
Everywhere was magnificence, at once refined and stupendous; if it was not the most diminutive of palaces, it was the most gigantic of jewel cases.
In every palace of that date there was a wonderful labyrinth of chambers and corridors, where luxury ran riot; gilding, marble, carved wainscoting, Eastern silks; nooks and corners, some secret and dark as night, others light and pleasant as the day.
It was warm.
There were pleasant odours now and then, and he crossed currents of perfume, as though passing by invisible flowers.
CHAPTER two.
He was encompassed by a net of wonders.
"Oh!
It realized the fables of enchanted castles.
Then a crossway, with rooms on every side.
He stood still and listened.
Carpets everywhere.
If there was a giant, a hell hound, a minotaur, to keep the gate of this enchanted palace, I would annihilate him.
He strove to run; he was obliged to wander.
What a horrible palace! he thought.
The floors of these hives reached from the cellars to the attics.
Hidden pipes of hot air maintained a summer temperature in the building.
He listened.
They shall not keep me here by force.
If an army, I would exterminate it.
What is that great tower yonder?
Pictures turning on false panels were exits and entrances.
Everywhere-on the ceilings, on the walls, and on the very floors-were representations, in velvet or in metal, of birds, of trees; of luxuriant vegetation, picked out in reliefs of lacework; tables covered with jet carvings, representing warriors, queens, and tritons armed with the scaly terminations of a hydra.
Woe to him who bars my exit!
They were gilded oubliettes, savouring both of the cloister and the harem.
Moreover, this was a labyrinth.
He could not find one.
They were called "The Little Rooms."
Impossible!
Perhaps the architects of "the little rooms," building for royalty and aristocracy, took as models the ramifications of coral beds, and the openings in a sponge.
He was burning to be off, to get outside, to see Dea again.
He explored every passage that he came to.
One might have walked about there, unclothed.
The tops of the high windows were converted into small rooms and glass attics, forming pretty habitable lanterns.
In those elegant caverns princes and lords stored their plunder.
The branches became a labyrinth.
At times he thought that he must be returning towards his starting point; then, that he saw some one approaching.
Mirrors repeated the light of precious stones, and sparkles glittered in the darkest corners.
A zigzag of rooms, one running into another, led back to the starting point.
The view from each one was different.
It was within them that evil deeds were hatched.
He felt himself bound and held back.
Then he recognized himself, but not at once.
The thickness of the walls was such that there were rooms within them.
There were attics, richly and brightly furnished; burnished recesses shining with Dutch tiles and Portuguese azulejos.
Not a sound.
A confessional was grafted on to an alcove.
In palaces after the Italian fashion, and Corleone Lodge was one, there were very few doors, but abundance of tapestry screens and curtained doorways.
It was like dropping water.
THE RESEMBLANCE OF A PALACE TO A WOOD.
Restless, he wandered through the maze, asking himself what it all meant-whether he was in prison; chafing, thirsting for the fresh air.
Not a living creature was to be seen.
Here and there were closets, nominally wardrobes.
All was deserted, silent, splendid, sinister.
Cut crystals combining prismatic effects with those of reflection.
He thought that he had but one door to thrust open, while he had a skein of doors to unravel.
Rapidly the airship ascended, and, when it was high over the town of Shopton, Tom headed the craft due west.
"What is it?" asked mr Jenks, rising from his seat.
"What are you doing now?" asked mr Jenks, who had been talking with mr Parker, and showing that scientist some of the manufactured diamonds.
That's so," cried the eccentric mr Damon.
"How do you like it?" asked Tom.
"The mysterious man is aboard the airship-hidden away!" cried Tom. "That's what Eradicate was trying to call to our attention as we started off.
"There is every indication of it;" and he seemed quite delighted at the prospect of his prediction coming true.
Looking down he tried to descry Mary Nestor, in her carriage, but the trees were in the way, their interlocking branches hiding the girl.
He-he's been trying to get us ever since we started, but I didn't have the wireless in shape to receive messages. Oh, I hope it's not too late!"
mr Jenks was gazing off toward the west-to where he hoped to discover the secret of Phantom Mountain.
The lad did not answer at once.
But this is great!
On his face there was a look of worriment.
I."--his home station call-than he started and a look of surprise came over his face.
"At first I thought I would be frightened, but I'm not a bit.
Tom noted all the messages down, and then, when all was in readiness he began to call his home station.
Tom got up, occasionally, to look to the machinery, but it was all automatically controlled, and an alarm bell would sound in his stateroom when anything went wrong.
mr Damon, who knew how to operate the Red Cloud, was soon guiding her on the course, while Tom made his way to the rear compartments, through the motor room, where the stores of supplies and food were kept.
"Bless my napkin!" exclaimed mr Damon the next morning, as they sat down to a breakfast of fruit, ham and eggs and fragrant coffee, "this is living as well as in a hotel, and yet we are-how far are we above the earth, Tom?" he asked, turning to the young inventor.
"I told you it would come," declared the scientist, and there was a small hurricane below them that morning, but only the lower edge of it caught the Red Cloud, and when Tom sent her up still higher she found a comparatively quiet zone, where she slid along at good speed.
In the afternoon the speed of the ship was increased, and by night they had covered several hundred miles.
"Starting always is," was the answer, "though, as the Irishman said, coming down isn't sometimes quite so comfortable."
"Everything all right?" asked mr Damon, as Tom rejoined them in the pilot house, which was just forward of the living room in the main cabin.
"I'm glad to hear that," remarked mr Jenks.
"A good start, Tom Swift," complimented mr Parker.
"It's hard to realize that we are really in an airship," observed the diamond man.
Bless my soul, too late for what?" gasped mr Damon, somewhat alarmed by Tom's manner.
Tom and the others devoted several hours to arranging their staterooms and bunks, and getting their clothing stowed away, and when this was done mr Parker and mr Jenks sat gazing off into space.
The various pieces of apparatus were working well, though the engine had not yet been speeded up to its limit.
Finally, after several hours of work, the wireless was in shape to send and receive messages.
"Oh, I think there will be no danger," spoke Tom.
"If it comes on to blow we will ascend or descend out of the path of the storm.
"A hurricane!" cried mr Damon.
mr Jenks had no one to whom he wanted to send any word, but mr Parker wish to wire to a fellow scientist the result of some observations made in the upper air.
"Father has just sent me a message," he said.
Eradicate saw his face at a rear window, and tried to warn us!
This craft is not like the ill fated Whizzer.
CHAPTER nine-A WARNING BY WIRELESS
"Yes, but not as easily as in the Butterfly.
He made a careful examination, looking from an after window, and even going out on a small, open platform, but could discover nothing wrong.
"Is it always as easy as this?"
Through the darkness the Red Cloud kept on, making good time.
Now, mr Damon, if you will just take charge of the steering apparatus for a minute, I want to go aft."
"Getting our wireless apparatus in shape," answered the lad.
However I hope we will not have to.
Tom did see crowds of other persons, though, thronging the streets of Shopton, for, though the young inventor had made many flights, there was always a novelty about them, that brought out the curious.
On his way back through the motor room Tom looked to the machinery, and adjusted some of the auxiliary oil feeders.
"Well, I predict that we will have a bad storm," insisted mr Parker, and Tom could not help wishing that the scientist would keep his gloomy forebodings to himself.
"About two miles now.
"Bless my gizzard!
"Something is likely to happen soon," said mr Parker, suddenly, as he gazed at some weather instruments on the cabin wall.
Tom pulled over the lever, and a crackling sound was heard, as the electricity leaped from the transmitters into space. Then he clamped the receiver on his ear.
It doesn't seem as if anything could happen."
Tom wanted it to "warm-up" first.
"It's great," replied the diamond man.
"Who is?" asked mr Jenks.
He knew that either his father or mr Jackson, the engineer, could receive the wireless.
"They're calling us!" he exclaimed.
"Has anybody any messages they wish sent?" For, with the courtesy of a true host he was ready to serve his guests before he forwarded his own wireless notes.
"It would be too bad to be wrecked before we got to Phantom Mountain."
"I should have done it before, but I had so much to do that I couldn't get at it. I'm going to send off some messages.
That afternoon Tom busied himself about some wires and a number of complicated pieces of apparatus which were in one corner of the main cabin.
However the storm had not developed up to noon, when Tom, with mr Damon's help, served a fine meal in the dining room.
But I'll set the automatic steering gear now, mr Damon, and then you will be relieved."
As he worked away, he also made up his mind to send another message, in care of his father, for there was a receiving station in the Swift home. And to whom this message was addressed Tom did not say, but we fancy some of our readers can guess.
"What for?"
"What is it?"
"I've never been in an airship before, and it's different than what I expected; but it's great!
"Can we vol plane to earth in the Red Cloud, Tom?"
I hope we can find them."
"I think, from my observations, that we will soon have a hurricane," said the scientific man.
Don't say that!" cried mr Damon.
I just sent her up, as I thought I detected that storm mr Parker spoke of."
"I guess Rad was just capering about without any special object," mused Tom, but it was not long after this that they learned to their dismay, that the colored man had had a method in his madness.
Airships are not quite numerous enough for that, yet, though they may soon become so.
Finally I saw it, when that colored man went to feed his mule, and I slipped in, and hid in the airship.
He uttered not a word, but he smiled grimly when mr Damon remarked:
"If he has a gun it won't be any too easy to go in the storeroom, and drag him out."
I had food and water, so I didn't touch any of yours," and he looked at mr Damon, who seemed much relieved.
We'll put you off in the most lonesome spot we can find, and I guess you'll be some time getting back to civilization.
The cords were produced and the man, who had now ceased to struggle, was tightly bound.
We may get valuable information that way."
"Then I'll help you get it out!
"Let's go in."
"I wonder if he's really here?" whispered mr Damon.
We're not as desperate as your crowd.
"We shall have to proceed cautiously then," spoke mr Jenks.
"How?"
"You-you're not going to throw me over-with the airship two miles high; are you?" gasped the man.
"How?" asked Tom.
"I guess that will be far enough to let him fall," went on the diamond seeker.
"I've got him!" cried Tom, making a dive for the shadow.
"Better sneak up on him then, if we can," proposed mr Parker.
"We'll soon find out," answered Tom.
"We're going to get rid of you."
"Oh, I guess he didn't take much," declared the lad.
"How you got aboard, and what your object was in coming."
"We must try to capture him.
"That's so," agreed mr Jenks.
"That's easy enough.
"And what was your object?" demanded mr Jenks.
"Threaten to drop him overboard.
"But not from you!" exclaimed mr Jenks.
There was the report of a gun, some excited shouts, and when Tom could scramble to his feet, and rush out, he beheld mr Parker calmly sitting on a struggling man, while mr Jenks held a gun, that was still smoking.
Three days later, in crossing over a lonely region, near the Nebraska National Forest, Farley Munson, which was one of the names the spy went by, was dropped off the airship, when it was sent down to within a few feet of the earth.
"We must get him out at once!" declared mr Jenks.
"Drop him overboard!" cried mr Parker, in horror.
"We caught him!" cried the scientist.
"Yes," was the hesitating answer, "but I don't want to use them if I can help it.
"Will you tell us what we want to know, if we don't?" asked mr Jenks.
They were glancing about with eager eyes.
He has been sent by the band of diamond makers hidden among the mountains, to spy on me, and, if possible, prevent me from seeking to discover their secret.
But I hoped to accomplish it by other means.
"Bless my powder horn!" exploded mr Damon.
"He would destroy the craft, and us too, if he could prevent us from discovering the secret of Phantom Mountain, I believe."
"Oh, don't worry," said mr Jenks, quickly, "we're not going to toss you overboard.
"We must get him out, that's all," decided mr Jenks; with vigor.
"Do you know him?" asked Tom, in some surprise.
CHAPTER ten-DROPPING THE STOWAWAY
"By destroying the airship if need be.
"And do you really believe he would destroy the Red Cloud?" asked mr Parker.
We must get rid of him, or he may wreck the Red Cloud!"
And he would say nothing more, though by threats and promises mr Jenks tried to get from him something about the men in with him, and where the cave of the diamonds was located.
"Where are the ropes, Tom?"
"Catch him, mr Damon!" he cried.
They went softly to the storeroom, and listened at the door.
How high up are we, Tom?"
"He was one of those who took me to the secret cave.
"There are enough of us to cope with one man, even if he is armed.
"That man is one of my enemies.
"I predicted it from the first!"
He and Tom moved cautiously back among the boxes and barrels.
"Look out, mr Jenks!" cried Tom, to warn those on guard at the door of the storeroom.
"The man is hidden away on board now-probably among the stores and supplies."
Tom's excited announcement startled mr Damon and the others as much as if the young inventor had informed them that the airship had exploded and was about to dash with them to the earth.
But we're going to get rid of you, and then go on before you can send any word to your confederates.
"How are you going to capture him?" asked mr Parker.
I'm ready as soon as you are, Tom," said the eccentric man. "Come ahead."
"I don't think so," replied Tom.
"He was in with the diamond makers," said mr Jenks.
This would give the two a chance to penetrate to the far end of the apartment, without arousing the suspicions of the hidden man, who, doubtless, would be listening to the conversation.
"Get him out and drop him overboard!"
"Are you sure that message is straight?" asked mr Jenks.
"Then you'll have to take what comes!"
"Father says," the lad told his companions "that Eradicate only had a glimpse of the man at the last moment.
The lad saw a dark figure moving, as if to get farther out of sight.
"Well, I guess if we go at it the right way we can capture him without any shooting.
But we must talk more quietly-we ought to have whispered-he may have heard us."
"We'll have to use a little strategy," decided Tom, and then they discussed several plans.
"I knew something would happen on this voyage," came from mr Parker.
Why?"
So, unless he heard the wireless working, and suspects something from that, he probably doesn't know that we are aware of his presence aboard."
They would discuss various dishes, and mr Damon was to express a preference for something in the food line, the box containing which, was well back in the room.
"Come on, mr Damon, help me throw him overboard!"
"I guess I'll go back in the storeroom, Tom, and see how much food he ate."
"The storeroom is far enough off so that he couldn't hear us.
mr Jenks' plan, of dropping him down in some place where he would have difficulty in sending on word to his confederates was considered a good one.
Now to capture the stowaway!"
By that time we'll have the secret of the diamonds."
"If he is like any others in the gang he is a desperate man."
"Well, Farley Munson, so it's you, is it?" asked mr Jenks, as he surveyed the prisoner.
"What do you want to know?"
"Anybody hurt?" asked Tom, anxiously.
"It will take you some time to get to a telegraph office," said mr Jenks, as a package of food, and a flask of water was tossed down to the stowaway.
Then, when he failed, the man must have sneaked into the shed, and hidden himself in the ship.
I'll have some ropes ready, and we'll tie him up, and-well, we'll decide later what to do with him."
"Did Eradicate see the man?"
"No, I knocked up his gun as he fired," explained mr Jenks.
The men leaped to their feet, and stared at the lad.
"And if we refuse?" asked Tom.
"I think that all he is waiting for is a favorable chance," declared the diamond seeker.
"That's so!" cried Tom.
Another communication was coming to him by wireless.
Tom thought considerable, but he did not answer the scientist just then.
"Bless my tomato sauce!" exploded mr Damon.
He listened intently.
"And while we're about it, give him a good scare when we do get him," suggested mr Jenks.
"But why do you think he has remained quiet all this while, Tom?" asked mr Damon.
Perhaps that will make him tell how he happened to get in our ship, and what are the plans of the gang of diamond makers.
I think we had better-" the lad paused, and again listened to the wireless message. "Father says Eradicate saw the man have a gun, so we must be careful," the young inventor translated the dots and dashes.
Not only because of the danger, and a dislike of shedding blood, but because a stray bullet might pierce the gas bag and damage the ship."
"Jump before he has a chance to use his gun.
"All right.
"Then we must get ahead of him," decided Tom, quietly.
"I wanted to prevent you from going to Phantom Mountain."
"About two miles.
"I have just flashed to dad a message, telling him that we will heed his warning.
He shook his fist at those in the airship, and shouted after them:
He, too, had been knocked down by the fleeing man.
But it will be the last time he ever goes there.
"He wasn't there long enough."
What's to be done?" inquired mr Damon, looking around helplessly.
"I don't believe you can scare such fellows much," was Tom's opinion, but it was agreed to try.
Heavily bound with ropes the man was locked in a small closet, to be kept there until a favorable spot was reached for letting him go.
The quiet town seemed suddenly inundated with children, all in such a rampant state that busy mothers wondered how they ever should be able to keep their frisky darlings out of mischief; thrifty fathers planned how they could bribe the idle hands to pick berries or rake hay; and the old folks, while wishing the young folks well, secretly blessed the man who invented schools.
"I'll take care of her.
"It's only squirrels; don't mind, but come along and be good; for I 'm so tired, I don't know what to do!" sighed Bab, trying to pull him after her as she trudged on, bound to see the outside of that wonderful tent, even if she never got in.
I 'm so little, it wouldn't be much."
"Hold on a minute, while I get one more drink.
"You'll catch it when you get home, Ben; so you'd better have a good time while you can," advised Sam, thinking Bab great fun, since none of the blame of her pranks would fall on him.
You just catch hold of this and run along home.
Lock Sanch up for an hour, and tell your mother I'm all right," answered Ben, bound to assert his manly supremacy before his mates.
I picked some of that, it was so green and pretty.
No use now.
"She won't like your going, either."
Sanch saw something down there; and I went with him, 'cause I thought may be it was a musk rat, and you'd like one if we could get him."
"Nobody would do it; so you'd have to stay outside, you see."
"May as well; don't see much else to do," sighed Sam, rising like a young elephant.
"Well, he won't like that, nor you either; it's poisonous, and I shouldn't wonder if you'd got poisoned, Bab.
Tired teacher had dismissed them for eight whole weeks, and gone away to rest; the little school house was shut up, lessons were over, spirits rising fast, and vacation had begun.
"Are you hungry?" asked Billy, fishing out several fragments of gingerbread.
"Can't wait for you to get ready."
"How dared you come after us, miss?" demanded Sam, as she looked calmly about her, and took a seat before she was asked.
It's only four miles, and we've got lots of time, so we can take it easy.
"Yes, I could, as easy as not."
"I don't care, if I see the animals first.
Bab also longed to join in the fun, which suited her better than "stupid picnics" or "fussing over dolls;" but her heroes would not have her at any price; and she was obliged to content herself with sitting by Thorny, and watching with breathless interest the varying fortunes of "our side."
Ben calmly produced a dollar bill and waved it defiantly before this doubter, observing with dignity:
"Foot it with Billy.
Bab scrubbed her face till it shone; and, pulling down her apron to wipe it, scattered a load of treasures collected in her walk.
Sancho lapped eagerly, with his eyes shut; all his ruffles were gray with dust, and his tail hung wearily down, the tassel at half mast, as if in mourning for the master whom he had come to find.
"Of Course it wouldn't.
I thought of that, and planned how I'd fix it if I didn't find Ben.
Then you are too big to begin, though you might do for a fat boy if Smithers wanted one," said Ben, surveying the stout youth, with calm contempt.
"Where did you get that?" he asked, poking it with his foot.
Ben was a promising pupil, and made rapid progress; for eye, foot, and hand had been so well trained, that they did him good service now; and Brown was considered a first rate "catcher".
We must have gone by them somewhere, for I don't see any one that way, and there isn't any other road to the circus, seems to me."
"Will it break out on me 'fore I get to the circus?"
"Let's go in swimming, not loaf round here, if we can't play," proposed a red and shiny boy, panting for a game of leap frog in Sandy pond.
"Circus!
"Now you expect to go to the circus, I suppose."
Bab with a face as red as a lobster and streaked with tears, shoes white with dust, playfrock torn at the gathers, something bundled up in her apron, and one shoe down at the heel as if it hurt her.
I'd like to see her walking eight miles.
"Perhaps mrs Moss would have planned somehow so we could all go, if I'd told her, I'd like to show her round, and she's been real good to me.
Folks are going in now.
"Look here, read it!
Sanch will take care of me, if you won't," answered Bab, stoutly.
CHAPTER thirteen
Thorny was an excellent player, but, not being strong enough to show his prowess, he made Ben his proxy; and, sitting on the fence, acted as umpire to his heart's content.
So they lay about on the grass in the shade of the big elm, languidly discussing their various wrongs and disappointments.
"I Suppose it wouldn't do-" hinted Billy, with a look from Ben to the little girl, who stood winking hard to keep the tears back.
"You couldn't walk four miles," began Ben.
"Catch me cuttin' away if I had such a chance as that!" answered Sam, trying to balance his bat on his chin and getting a smart rap across the nose as he failed to perform the feat.
It was a mistake on Ben's part, for while his eyes were on his work Bab's were devouring the bill which Sam still held, and her suspicions were aroused by the boys' faces.
"'School is done, Now we'll have fun,"
I don't care if it is my old hat," and Bab jerked it on to her head.
"I'll bring you a roll of chickerberry lozengers, if you won't tease," whispered kind hearted Billy, with a consoling pat on the crown of the shabby straw hat.
"Much you know about it, old chap.
The boys took to base ball like ducks to water, and the common was the scene of tremendous battles, waged with much tumult, but little bloodshed.
"Sanch would come after Ben; I couldn't make him go home, so I had to hold on till he was safe here, else he'd be lost, and then Ben would feel bad."
"You haven't got any money."
"I'll go as I am.
Somehow those two figures seemed to go before Ben all along the pleasant road, and half spoilt his fun; for though he laughed and talked, cut canes, and seemed as merry as a grig, he could not help feeling that he ought to have asked leave to go, and been kinder to Bab.
"Now, you wash your face and spat down your hair, and put your hat on straight, and then we'll go," commanded Ben, giving Sanch a roll on the grass to clean him.
"Don't you bother; we don't want any girls tagging after us," said Sam, walking off to escape the annoyance.
Ben said he didn't mind paying, if I could get there without bothering him, and I have; and I'll go home alone.
"When the circus comes here you shall go, certain sure, and Betty too," said Ben, feeling mean while he proposed what he knew was a hollow mockery.
"No; only a snake, and I don't care for snakes.
"In a swampy place, coming along.
"No, I won't; I don't like him.
I'll take the girls a lot of candy and make it all right."
"Cricky! wouldn't I like to see that," said little Cyrus Fay, devoutly hoping that the cage, in which this pleasing spectacle took place, was a very strong one.
I want to have a good go at every thing, especially the lions," said Sam, beginning on his last cookie.
No, Bab, you can't go. Travel right home and don't make a fuss.
Such a shabby, tired looking couple as they were!
Don't you be a donkey, Bill.
"Where are you going?
"That was a cow mooing.
Miss Celia wouldn't care, and I'm going, any way."
We can buy some dinner and get a ride home, as like as not," said the amiable Billy, with a slap on the shoulder, and a cordial grin which made it impossible for Ben to resist.
Some of the dead flowers, bits of moss, and green twigs fell near Ben, and one attracted his attention,--a spray of broad, smooth leaves, with a bunch of whitish berries on it.
"What do you suppose your mother will say to you?" asked Ben, feeling much reproached by her last words.
That, now, is something like," and Ben, who had pricked up his ears at the word "circus," laid his finger on a smaller cut of a man hanging by the back of his neck with a child in each hand, two men suspended from his feet, and the third swinging forward to alight on his head.
I don't mind paying for her; it's getting her there and back.
"It's the meanest Fourth I ever saw.
Thorny likes queer leaves and berries, you know," answered Bab, "spatting," down her rough locks.
"I want you to take Sanch home, and tell your mother I'm going to walk, and may be won't be back till sundown.
"Not for a day or so, I guess; but it's bad when it does come."
The girls immediately began to talk about picnics, and have them, too; for little hats sprung up in the fields like a new sort of mushroom,--every hillside bloomed with gay gowns, looking as if the flowers had gone out for a walk; and the woods were full of featherless birds chirping away as blithely as the thrushes, robins, and wrens.
"I wouldn't give two cents for such a slow old place as this.
"They never do come to such little towns; you said so, and I think you are very cross, and I won't take care of Sanch, so, now!" cried Bab, getting into a passion, yet ready to cry, she was so disappointed.
Bab still held the strap, intent on keeping her charge safe, though she lost herself; but her courage seemed to be giving out, as she looked anxiously up and down the road, seeing no sign of the three familiar figures she had been following as steadily as a little Indian on the war trail.
"I've got money enough to treat the whole crowd, if I choose to, which I don't."
It was very warm; and just outside of the town they paused by a wayside watering trough to wash their dusty faces, and cool off before plunging into the excitements of the afternoon.
"You have; I saw you showing your dollar, and you could pay for me, and Ma would pay it back."
Oh, Ben, do take me!" cried Bab, falling into a state of great excitement at the mere thought of such delight.
"You never would, it's only a picture!
"Course I do.
"Don't know what to do with Sancho.
"Oh, I'd ask somebody to pay for me.
"What are you stopping for?" demanded Sam, ready to be off, that they might "take it easy."
Down it jumped and Came fluttering up, much elated at being summoned by the captain of the sacred nine.
"Come on, Brown; you'll be a first rate fellow to show us round, as you know all the dodges," said Billy, anxious to get his money's worth.
A supply of gingerbread was soon bought; and, climbing the green bank above, they lay on the grass under a wild cherry tree, munching luxuriously, while they feasted their eyes at the same time on the splendors awaiting them; for the great tent, with all its flags flying, was visible from the hill.
"What would you have done if you hadn't found us?" asked Billy, forgetting his impatience in his admiration for this plucky young lady.
"Do, do take me, Ben!
"Look out for the big show," read Sam.
You are a smart child, Bab; and if I had enough I'd take you in myself," said Billy, heartily; for, having sisters of his own, he kept a soft place in his heart for girls, especially enterprising ones.
"I heard 'em roar just now;" and Billy stood up to gaze with big eyes at the flapping canvas which hid the king of beasts from his longing sight.
Ben spoke very decidedly; and, taking Billy's arm, away they went, leaving poor Bab and Sanch to watch them out of sight, one sobbing, the other whining dismally.
Admission fifty cents, children half price. Don't forget day and date.
Thorny had gone out of town with his sister to pass the day, two of the best players did not appear, and the others were somewhat exhausted by the festivities, which began at sunrise for them.
"Now, then, what's the matter?" demanded Ben, as the other came up grinning and puffing, but full of great news.
"Your mother wouldn't like it."
"I wish you'd hurry up, Sam.
In the use of this he became so skilful, that he could kill with it not only the animals of the chase for the table, but even birds on the wing.
At last he came to an opening in the wood where he saw a tent, and as he thought it might be a church he said his pater noster to it.
Now this damsel came up to Perceval and told him, smiling, that if he lived he would be one of the bravest and best of knights.
And he went towards it; and the door of the tent was open.
If thou see a fair woman, pay court to her, for thus thou wilt obtain love."
Sir Owain unfastened the armor, and helped Perceval to put it on, and taught him how to put his foot in the stirrup, and use the spur; for Perceval had never used stirrup nor spur, but rode without saddle, and urged on his horse with a stick.
But for all that, the man did not break off his discourse with Perceval.
And Perceval went to the place where they kept the horses that carried firewood and provisions for the castle, and he took a bony, piebald horse, which seemed to him the strongest of them.
"What is this?" demanded Perceval, touching the saddle.
"My son," said she, "desirest thou to ride forth?" "Yes, with thy leave," said he.
PERCEVAL
When it was time the tables were set, and they went to meat.
And as he did not tell him the meaning of what he saw, he forebore to ask him concerning it.
Perceval journeyed on till he arrived at Arthur's court.
I have also a message from Arthur unto thee, to pray thee to come and visit him.
They attacked me, and I was annoyed thereat"
For it seemed to them that no one would have ventured on so daring an outrage unless he possessed such powers, through magic or charms, that none could be able to punish him.
And when all the company saw this they began to weep and lament.
When he came again to his mother, the countess had recovered from her swoon.
Then Perceval returned to his mother, and said to her, "Mother, those were not angels, but honorable knights." Then his mother swooned away.
And he came to a lake on the side of which was a fair castle, and on the border of the lake he saw a hoary headed man sitting upon a velvet cushion, and his attendants were fishing in the lake.
And two men have been before on this errand." "That is true," said Perceval; "and uncourteously they came.
He was allowed no weapon but "a lyttel Scots spere," which was the only thing of all "her lordes faire gere" that his mother carried to the wood with her.
And Perceval rode forward.
Now Arthur and his household were in search of Perceval, and by chance they came that way.
A fool was the ornament held in next estimation to a dwarf.
And hereupon there came the queen and her handmaidens, and Perceval saluted them.
"By my faith, I will go and become an angel with them." And Perceval went to the road and met them.
He wore a white dress with a yellow bonnet, and carried a bell or bawble in his hand.
And Perceval thrust at him with his lance, and cast him down so that he broke his arm and his shoulder blade.
Then said Sir Gawain, surnamed the Golden Tongued, because he was the most courteous knight in Arthur's court: "It is not fitting that any should disturb an honorable knight from his thought unadvisedly; for either he is pondering some damage that he has sustained, or he is thinking of the lady whom best he loves.
So they went together to Arthur, and saluted him.
If thou see a fair jewel, win it, for thus shalt thou acquire fame; yet freely give it to another, for thus thou shalt obtain praise.
And the king's fool [Footnote: A fool was a common appendage of the courts of those days when this romance was written.
For when her page was serving the queen with a golden goblet, this knight struck the arm of the page and dashed the wine in the queen's face and over her stomacher. Then he said, "If any have boldness to avenge this insult to Guenever, let him follow me to the meadow." So the knight took his horse and rode to the meadow, carrying away the golden goblet.
And he rode far in the woody wilderness without food or drink.
CHAPTER eighteen
Just then, behold, Perceval entered the hall upon the bony, piebald horse, with his uncouth trappings.
Then he asked about all the accoutrements which he saw upon the men and the horses, and about the arms, and what they were for, and how they were used.
So he turned his horse's head toward the meadow.
He said to his mother, "Mother, what are those yonder?" "They are angels, my son," said she.
"Truly," said Kay, "thou art ill taught to remain a year at Arthur's court, with choice of society, and smile on no one, and now before the face of Arthur and all his knights to call such a man as this the flower of knighthood;" and he gave her a box on the ear, that she fell senseless to the ground.
After this discourse Perceval mounted the horse and taking a number of sharp pointed sticks in his hand he rode forth.
"Ha, ha, lad!" said Perceval, "my mother's servants were not used to play with me in this wise; so thus will I play with thee." And he threw at him one of his sharp pointed sticks, and it struck him in the eye, and came out at the back of his head, so that he fell down lifeless.
And when the youth returned to the king, and told how rudely he had been treated, Sir Kay said, "I will go myself." And when he greeted Perceval, and got no answer, he spoke to him rudely and angrily.
The father and two elder brothers of Perceval had fallen in battle or tournaments, and hence, as the last hope of his family, his mother retired with him into a solitary region, where he was brought up in total ignorance of arms and chivalry.
"Gladly will I do so," answered Perceval.
But Perceval was so intent upon his thought that he gave him no answer.
And when he came there, the knight was riding up and down, proud of his strength and valor and noble mien.
At length, however, Perceval was roused to a desire of military renown by seeing in the forest five knights who were in complete armor.
They learned from some travellers whom they met, that there were two roads which led to the castle of Sir Maleagans.
Wilt thou shame thyself?
CHAPTER nine
Then they that were best horsed chased him, and shot at him, but the child went from them all.
But to admit his companion, whom she supposed to be a criminal, or at least a prisoner, it pleased her not; however, to oblige Sir Gawain, she consented.
The knight, who was hungry and weary, accepted the offer, though with no very good grace.
At nightfall they arrived at a castle and the lady thereof came out at the head of her damsels to welcome Sir Gawain.
Launcelot was enfeebled by his wounds, and fought not with his usual spirit, and the contest for a time was doubtful; till Guenever exclaimed, "Ah, Launcelot! my knight, truly have I been told that thou art no longer worthy of me!" These words instantly revived the drooping knight; he resumed at once his usual superiority, and soon laid at his feet his haughty adversary.
Then by chance there came by him a cart that came thither to fetch wood.
But Sir Launcelot took no thought of anything but the necessity of haste for the purpose of rescuing the queen; so he demanded of the carter that he should take him in and convey him as speedily as possible for a liberal reward.
He was on the point of sacrificing him to his resentment, when Guenever, moved by the entreaties of Brademagus, ordered him to withhold the blow, and he obeyed.
The next day the fairy brought him on his road, and before parting gave him a ring, which she told him would by its changes of color disclose to him all enchantments, and enable him to subdue them.
The lady of the castle supplied Sir Launcelot with a horse and they traversed the plain at full speed.
And they shot at him and smote his horse so that he fell.
Now at this time carts were little used except for carrying offal and for conveying criminals to execution.
It seems that the story of the abominable cart, which haunted Launcelot at every step, had reached the ears of Sir Kay, who had told it to the queen, as a proof that her knight must have been dishonored.
Then it happened Sir Gawain passed by and seeing an armed knight travelling in that unusual way he drew near to see who it might be.
Neither would the damsels prepare a bed for him.
At length his progress was checked by a wide and rapid torrent, which could only be passed on a narrow bridge, on which a false step would prove his destruction.
Sir Launcelot pursued his journey, without being much incommoded except by the taunts of travellers, who all seemed to have learned, by some means, his disgraceful drive in the cart.
He followed the lady to her castle and ate voraciously of her supper, but was quite impenetrable to all her amorous advances.
"In the merry month of May, In a morn at break of day, With a troop of damsels playing, The Queen, forsooth, went forth a maying."
Then they lashed together with swords till several were smitten to the earth.
Three days elapsed, during which Launcelot wandered without knowing where he went, till at last he began to reflect that his mistress had doubtless been deceived by misrepresentation, and that it was his duty to set her right.
THE ADVENTURE OF THE CART
So upon the morn they took their horses with the queen, and rode a maying in woods and meadows, as it pleased them, in great joy and delight.
And when Sir Maleagans saw him so flee, he understood that it was by the queen's commandment for to warn Sir Launcelot.
"Alas! for shame," said Sir Launcelot, "that ever one knight should betray another! but it is an old saw, a good man is never in danger, but when he is in danger of a coward." Then Sir Launcelot went awhile and he was exceedingly cumbered by his armor, his shield, and his spear, and all that belonged to him.
"For thus it chanced one morn when all the court, Green suited, but with plumes that mock'd the May, Had been, their wont, a maying"
At supper Sir Launcelot came near being consigned to the kitchen and was only admitted to the lady's table at the earnest solicitation of Sir Gawain.
Then within a while he came to a wood where was a narrow way; and there the archers were laid in ambush.
He seized the first he found unoccupied and was left undisturbed.
As evening approached he was met by a young and sportive damsel, who gayly proposed to him a supper at her castle.
Then Sir Launcelot told him how the queen had been carried off, and how, in hastening to her rescue, his horse had been disabled and he had been compelled to avail himself of the cart rather than give up his enterprise.
At night he was received at another castle, with great apparent hospitality, but found himself in the morning in a dungeon, and loaded with chains.
Launcelot, after an easy victory, only doomed him to be carted in his turn.
Then Sir Launcelot left his horse and went on foot, but there lay so many ditches and hedges betwixt the archers and him that he might not meddle with them.
Consulting his ring, and finding that this was an enchantment, he burst his chains, seized his armor in spite of the visionary monsters who attempted to defend it, broke open the gates of the tower, and continued his journey.
Now this knight, Sir Maleagans, learned the queen's purpose, and that she had no men of arms with her but the ten noble knights all arrayed in green for maying; so he prepared him twenty men of arms, and a hundred archers, to take captive the queen and her knights.
But Guenever had full leisure to repent the haste with which she had given credit to the tale.
One, more insolent than the rest, had the audacity to interrupt him during dinner, and even to risk a battle in support of his pleasantry.
And by the way Sir Maleagans laid in ambush the best archers that he had to wait for Sir Launcelot.
Then Sir Gawain said, "Surely it is unworthy of a knight to travel in such sort;" but Sir Launcelot heeded him not.
The carter consented, and Sir Launcelot placed himself in the cart and only lamented that with much jolting he made but little progress.
--Old Song.
So when the queen had mayed, and all were bedecked with herbs, mosses, and flowers in the best manner and freshest, right then came out of a wood Sir Maleagans with eightscore men well harnessed, and bade the queen and her knights yield them prisoners.
Sir Gawain thought it might be so, and became equally eager to depart.
He was gay and full of spirits; he rubbed his hands, he studied his attitudes.
The Professor moved towards the rock upon which Hans had laid down the instruments.
"But, my dear uncle, do let me ask you one question."
I was shattered with fatigue and excitement; I wanted a whole hour to recover even a little.
"Well," replied my uncle, "we may easily ascertain this by consulting the compass.
When we have reached the centre of the globe, either we shall find some new way to get back, or we shall come back like decent folks the way we came.
At the same time I cherished a trembling hope which was a fear as well.
"Then, as to provisions, have we enough to last?"
I shook the box, examined it again, it was in perfect condition.
And yet there was method in his madness.
Then he returned to the rocks, against which the furious waves were beating, to save what he could.
I was unable to speak.
"No; but we have got to the end of that endless sea.
"Here is the aneroid, the most useful of all, and for which I would have given all the others.
"Here it is, upon this rock, in perfect condition, as well as the thermometers and the chronometer.
"Well, my boy," he cried, "have you slept well?"
"Of course, Axel."
Hans is a clever fellow, and I am sure he must have saved a large part of our cargo.
It pointed to the shore instead of to the open sea!
I asked, was he not touched in the brain?
"And now let us go to breakfast," said he.
"But you, uncle, you seem in very good spirits this morning."
Let us go and see what it says."
I asked.
"Especially," I replied, "if it happens that we have only crossed it in its narrowest part.
"But then we shall have to refit the raft."
I feel pleased at the thought that it is sure not to be shut against us."
"You mean Axel Island.
"What is the matter?" I asked.
A few overhanging rocks afforded us some shelter from the storm.
"Well," said I, "let it be Axel Island.
"But where is the compass?
Here I end what I may call my log, happily saved from the wreck, and I resume my narrative as before.
"No, I think not.
"Yes; to be sure we have.
The sky and the sea had sunk into sudden repose.
"That seems to me," I said, "rather difficult to make out."
Our stock of powder had remained uninjured after having risked blowing up during the storm.
As for tools and appliances, there they all lay on the ground-ladders, ropes, picks, spades, etc
Hans prepared some food, which I could not touch; and each of us, exhausted with three sleepless nights, fell into a broken and painful sleep.
"Yes, but how about the instruments?"
Not that we had suffered no losses.
By means of it I can calculate the depth and know when we have reached the centre; without it we might very likely go beyond, and come out at the antipodes!"
I stared at the Professor with a good deal of mistrust.
You are only a little bit tired."
"That is right; and this would make three hundred leagues more."
But they were forty leagues perpendicular of solid granite wall, and in reality we were a thousand leagues asunder!
"In the simplest way possible.
"No, I only want to know how that is to be managed."
But still let us go and make sure."
"How so?" I cried.
All these painful reflections rapidly crossed my mind before I could answer my uncle's question.
In whatever position I placed the box the needle pertinaciously returned to this unexpected quarter.
"How about returning?"
Such high spirits as these were rather too strong.
The north pole of the needle was turned to what we supposed to be the south.
We have got there."
Now we shall go by land, and really begin to go down!
I followed him, curious to know if I was right in my estimate.
We left this grotto which lay open to every wind.
We had all our instruments.
The next day the weather was splendid.
The brave Icelander carried me out of the reach of the waves, over a burning sand where I found myself by the side of my uncle.
He rubbed his eyes, and then turned to me thunderstruck with some unexpected discovery.
The hunter is a splendid fellow."
Hunger, the fresh air, the calm quiet weather, after the commotions we had gone through, all contributed to give me a good appetite.
CHAPTER thirty six.
"To our journey's end?"
There preserved meat, biscuit, and tea made us an excellent meal, one of the best I ever remember.
It seemed to me impossible that the terrible wreck of the raft should not have destroyed everything on board.
down!"
Whilst breakfasting I took the opportunity to put to my uncle the question where we were now.
"Oh, very well," I said.
"Well," cried the Professor, "as we have no guns we cannot hunt, that's all."
I ought by this time to have been quite accustomed to my uncle's ways; yet there was always something fresh about him to astonish me.
Perhaps we have deviated."
Why, you are talking about the return before the arrival."
"Well, now," he repeated, "won't you tell me how you have slept?"
As soon as we had arrived at the rock my uncle took the compass, laid it horizontally, and questioned the needle, which, after a few oscillations, presently assumed a fixed position. My uncle looked, and looked, and looked again.
My uncle shook hands with him with a lively gratitude.
I don't think we shall come out by the way that we went in."
"Yes, it is difficult," he said, "to calculate exactly; perhaps even impossible, since during these three stormy days I have been unable to keep any account of the rate or direction of the raft; but still we may get an approximation."
down!
Would not any one have thought that we were still in our cheerful little house on the Koenigstrasse and that I was only just coming down to breakfast, and that I was to be married to Graeuben that day?
"I am only a little knocked up, but I shall soon be better."
Still there was the question of provisions to be settled, and I asked-"How are we off for provisions?"
"Returning?
On my arrival on the shore I found Hans surrounded by an assemblage of articles all arranged in good order.
Don't decline the honour of having given your name to the first island ever discovered in the central parts of the globe."
Alas! if the tempest had but sent the raft a little more east, we should have passed under Germany, under my beloved town of Hamburg, under the very street where dwelt all that I loved most in the world. Then only forty leagues would have separated us!
What happened when the raft was dashed upon the rocks is more than I can tell.
"An idea of my own, my lad.
I followed him to a headland, after he had given his instructions to the hunter.
For instance, our firearms; but we might do without them.
Our course has been the same all along, and I believe this shore is south-east of Port Graeuben."
An exclamation of astonishment burst from me.
Surely, Axel, it may vie in size with the Mediterranean itself."
"Delighted, my boy, delighted.
I felt myself hurled into the waves; and if I escaped from death, and if my body was not torn over the sharp edges of the rocks, it was because the powerful arm of Hans came to my rescue.
CALM PHILOSOPHIC DISCUSSIONS
"Very well," answered my uncle; "let us start from that point and count four days' storm, during which our rate cannot have been less than eighty leagues in the twenty four hours."
As for the raft, I will recommend Hans to do his best to repair it, although I don't expect it will be of any further use to us."
It is true that these remains were not human bones, but objects bearing the traces of his handiwork, such as fossil leg bones of animals, sculptured and carved evidently by the hand of man.
You know as well as I do, gentlemen, the analysis made at Lucerne in fifteen seventy seven of those huge bones which the celebrated dr Felix Plater affirmed to be those of a giant nineteen feet high.
"Gigantosteologie," at last the Professor burst out, between two words which I shall not record here.
I have read the reports of the skeleton of Trapani, found in the fourteenth century, and which was at the time identified as that of Polyphemus; and the history of the giant unearthed in the sixteenth century near Palermo.
I make no rash assertions; but there is the man surrounded by his own works, by hatchets, by flint arrow heads, which are the characteristics of the stone age.
The skull of this fossil is a regular oval, or rather ovoid.
Then one very serious question arose presently which we scarcely dared to suggest. Had all those creatures slided through a great fissure in the crust of the earth, down to the shores of the Liedenbrock sea, when they were dead and turning to dust, or had they lived and grown and died here in this subterranean world under a false sky, just like inhabitants of the upper earth?
CHAPTER thirty eight.
We stood it up against a rock.
Not far distant were found stone hatchets and flint arrow heads stained and encased by lapse of time with a uniform coat of rust.
I stood mute before this apparition of remote antiquity.
It presents no appearance of that prognathism which diminishes the facial angle.
"Yes, gentlemen, I know all these things, and more.
Eminent geologists have denied his existence, others no less eminent have affirmed it.
It was a perfectly recognisable human body.
Such then was the state of palaeontological science, and what we knew of it was sufficient to explain our behaviour in the presence of this stupendous Golgotha.
I was good enough not to contradict this startling assertion.
It was the first fossil of this nature that had ever been brought to light.
I have heard the tale of the kneepan of Ajax, the pretended body of Orestes claimed to have been found by the Spartans, and of the body of Asterius, ten cubits long, of which Pausanias speaks.
It exhibits no prominent cheekbones, no projecting jaws.
It was not to be done.
My uncle, usually so garrulous, was struck dumb likewise.
I have perused a writing, entitled Gigan-"
We knew all these details, but we were not aware that since our departure the question had advanced to farther stages.
Another remarkable thing.
I know that Cuvier and Blumenbach have recognised in these bones nothing more remarkable than the bones of the mammoth and other mammals of the post tertiary period.
The noise of this discovery was very great, not in France alone, but in England and in Germany.
Here my uncle's unfortunate infirmity met him-that of being unable in public to pronounce hard words.
But I do not possess that valuable solvent.
THE PROFESSOR IN HIS CHAIR AGAIN
And unless he came here, like myself, as a tourist on a visit and as a pioneer of science, I can entertain no doubt of the authenticity of his remote origin."
Here the Professor laid hold of the fossil skeleton, and handled it with the skill of a dexterous showman.
"The pamphlet entitled Gigan-"
Nobody was smiling; but the learned Professor was frequently disturbed by the broad smiles provoked by his learned eccentricities.
Nor was this all.
To understand this apostrophe of my uncle's, made to absent French savants, it will be necessary to allude to an event of high importance in a palaeontological point of view, which had occurred a little while before our departure.
Therefore the genuineness of a fossil human relic of the quaternary period seemed to be incontestably proved and admitted.
But in the presence of this specimen to doubt would be to insult science.
We raised the body.
But I will go further in my deductions, and I will affirm that this specimen of the human family is of the Japhetic race, which has since spread from the Indies to the Atlantic.
I have gone through the treatises of Cassanion, and all those memoirs, pamphlets, answers, and rejoinders published respecting the skeleton of Teutobochus, the invader of Gaul, dug out of a sandpit in the Dauphine, in sixteen thirteen.
But this dried corpse, with its parchment like skin drawn tightly over the bony frame, the limbs still preserving their shape, sound teeth, abundant hair, and finger and toe nails of frightful length, this desiccated mummy startled us by appearing just as it had lived countless ages ago.
I am quite aware that science has to be on its guard with discoveries of this kind.
Any one may now understand the frenzied excitement of my uncle, when, twenty yards farther on, he found himself face to face with a primitive man!
It might be so.
Fresh discoveries of remains in the pleiocene formation had emboldened other geologists to refer back the human species to a higher antiquity still.
It is nearly ninety degrees.
Don't smile, gentlemen."
There stands the body!
It is the white race, our own.
It is not a mere skeleton; it is an entire body, preserved for a purely anthropological end and purpose."
The unlucky word would not come out.
In fact we were not upon the north shore of the sea.
"Now let us start upon fresh discoveries," I said.
Hans was finishing the repairs of the raft.
The space between the water and the foot of the cliffs was considerable.
"To the raft!" he shouted.
"Aha! will fate play tricks upon me?
"A human skull?" I cried, no less astonished.
We were therefore walking upon sedimentary soil, the deposits of the waters of former ages.
Perhaps even this water, subjected to the fierce action of central heat, had partly been resolved into vapour.
"We shall not sail until to morrow," he said.
I made a movement intended to express resignation.
With a few more pieces of surturbrand he had refitted our vessel.
I will not yield.
But my uncle rapidly recovered himself.
I was therefore going with as much resignation as I could find to resume my accustomed place on the raft, when my uncle laid his hand upon my shoulder.
A sail already hung from the new mast, and the wind was playing in its waving folds.
If Hans had but taken my side!
We had gone backwards instead of forwards!
In many places depressions or elevations gave witness to some tremendous power effecting the dislocation of strata.
The Icelander seemed to have renounced all will of his own and made a vow to forget and deny himself.
To him this was important.
It took half an hour to bring us to the wall of rock.
Could I stand against the two?
What could I do?
It was impossible?
They undulated away to the limits of the horizon, and melted in the distance in a faint haze.
Such was his only reply.
Fancy an enthusiastic bibliomaniac suddenly brought into the midst of the famous Alexandrian library burnt by Omar and restored by a miracle from its ashes! just such a crazed enthusiast was my uncle, Professor Liedenbrock.
We trampled under our feet numberless shells of all the forms and sizes which existed in the earliest ages of the world.
Ah!
"Yes, nephew.
I will not stir a single foot backwards, and it will be seen whether man or nature is to have the upper hand!"
Axel! a human head!"
Erect upon the rock, angry and threatening, Otto Liedenbrock was a rather grotesque fierce parody upon the fierce Achilles defying the lightning.
I was able to develop this series of unanswerable reasons for ten minutes without interruption; not that the Professor was paying any respectful attention to his nephew's arguments, but because he was deaf to all my eloquence.
I stood amazed.
The Professor said a few words to the guide, and immediately he put everything on board and arranged every necessary for our departure. The air was clear-and the north-west wind blew steadily.
"Just listen to me," I said firmly.
How shall I describe the strange series of passions which in succession shook the breast of Professor Liedenbrock?
I was therefore led to the conclusion that at one time the sea must have covered the ground on which we were treading.
Well, they shall know what a determined man can do.
One would have thought that this strange being was guessing at my uncle's intentions.
And leaving Hans to his work we started off together.
It seemed upset, contorted, and convulsed by a violent upheaval of the lower strata.
We had traversed the shores of the Liedenbrock sea for a mile when we observed a sudden change in the appearance of the soil.
Huge mounds of bony fragments rose stage after stage in the distance.
First stupefaction, then incredulity, lastly a downright burst of rage. Never had I seen the man so put out of countenance and so disturbed. The fatigues of our passage across, the dangers met, had all to be begun over again.
"Axel!
Shall fire, air, and water make a combined attack against me?
There within three square miles were accumulated the materials for a complete history of the animal life of ages, a history scarcely outlined in the too recent strata of the inhabited world.
I also saw immense carapaces more than fifteen feet in diameter.
We moved with difficulty across these granite fissures and chasms mingled with silex, crystals of quartz, and alluvial deposits, when a field, nay, more than a field, a vast plain, of bleached bones lay spread before us.
But I thought it my duty to interpose and attempt to lay some restraint upon this unmeasured fanaticism.
I could get nothing out of a servant so feudalised, as it were, to his master.
This might up to a certain point explain the existence of an ocean forty leagues beneath the surface of the globe.
Will the elements lay plots against me?
But in my opinion this liquid mass would be lost by degrees farther and farther within the interior of the earth, and it certainly had its origin in the waters of the ocean overhead, which had made their way hither through some fissure.
My only course was to proceed.
But no, it was not to be.
They had been the coverings of those gigantic glyptodons or armadilloes of the pleiocene period, of which the modern tortoise is but a miniature representative.
My uncle had uplifted his long arms to the vault which was our sky; his mouth gaping wide, his eyes flashing behind his shining spectacles, his head balancing with an up and down motion, his whole attitude denoted unlimited astonishment.
It seemed like an immense cemetery, where the remains of twenty ages mingled their dust together.
Wherever he saw a hole he always wanted to know the depth of it.
You understand me!"
"No; not quite."
"No more do I!"
"Rehnhjelm?
"Did you...."
"We'll kick him out!"
BILLS OF EXCHANGE
I should take jolly good care not to."
Is that so?"
"What rights do you mean?"
And besides-one thing more!
"The devil!
But, have you any meetings?
"Take care!
I guarantee such and such a sum; I must pay it-that's clear!"
"Oh!
Of course you weren't, for there was no party.
"Hm-yes!
"Oh, no!"
What did you call it?"
"Uniform?
Falk pondered; after a while he resumed the conversation.
"That's ugly," he said.
You are going too far!
"Wouldn't she really?"
"What?
I have bills on all with the exception of one."
I think I've heard it before.
"No, I don't!
"Hold your tongue and do as I tell you!
No! Hold on! We'll postpone that!
Tell me?"
"Which bank do you prefer?
Is she easily hurt?
Do you think she meant it?"
"You may depend upon it."
"At present only mrs Homan, the controller's wife, and Lady Rehnhjelm."
A very good name!
"Hold your tongue when I'm speaking!
It was impossible; he dressed and went to Falander's house.
"Lock it up," she said, "this is no toy, my friends."
Won't you sit down?"
Did you sleep well?"
Put on your hats and come."
"I say, what a sweet thing!
"I see, I have to speak more plainly.
"Is she hurt?"
"I say it's a lie!
"I hardly slept a wink."
I believe it is loaded."
"Hm!"
Where were you last night?"
"A spider on the morrow: grief and sorrow."
"What are you talking about?
Shut the door!
That's true enough, isn't it?"
"I remember the book; I liked it very much.
You had supper with the manager!"
"Come along, let's be off," he said, spitting on the hearthstone.
"Here," he said, handing it to Agnes; "go home and rid the world of a monster."
"What's that?" laughed Agnes, opening the box and taking out a six barrelled revolver.
"Hadn't we better stop talking nonsense now and be off?
Rehnhjelm overwhelmed him with questions, but Falander refused to reply before ten o'clock.
"No, I'm a journalist," objected Falk.
Let's light a fire!"
"Those are easy terms," replied Falk.
It's beastly cold."
Earth or rubbish?"
"What a question to ask," said Falk, looking at him doubtfully.
"Did you look it up?"
"Come here, Falk!
"Did he spend the night here?"
I must have a fire."
"That's no good; you are registered as assessor, and as such you still figure in the directory."
Is he asleep?"
Go to sleep!"
"From the Wheelwrights' Bank.
"All right, old chap!
"I don't care who's done it!
"But you can't do that sort of thing at Stockholm!"
"Hang it all, I'm cold!
"Send for some then!
But this is too hard."
Falk entered, looking a little hectic.
It shows too much!"
What's the floor packing?
"And the notes?"
"Good Lord, how modest you are," remarked Borg, and turned to Levin.
I can let you have it."
"Poor devil!" muttered Sellen, covering him up with his rug.
The figure!
"Eight hundred crowns?" he asked.
"How much do you want?
"Oh, won't it!
"I'll give you an hour," said Borg.
"Because it's rotten!" answered Borg.
But how is it to be paid back?"
"Thanks."
The amount!"
"A good subject!
"Oh! Bad!"
Levin had watched the scene, quiet, neutral, and polite.
"I'd rather not!
"Because I have no wood."
"One takes up a fresh loan at the Tailors' Bank, for instance," replied Borg.
Where's the servant?
"Do you want money?" said Borg to the newcomer, laying his hand on his breast pocket.
"Yes."
"Confound you!
I know them!
"Go on, Falk, sign!"
"One should be correct in matters of form," said Borg gravely.
"No!"
I'll make her trot."
"Oh!
"If you are not back with the money by then, I'll set the police on your track."
"Oh!
"Don't do it, Falk," said Olle; "it'll end badly, there'll be trouble."
"Miscreant!
Hm!
"I want it, and a pair of fire tongs."
How much?
"Twelve crowns every sixth month, twenty four crowns per annum, in two instalments," said Levin promptly and firmly.
"The rain's done it!"
"That's Falk," said Sellen, opening the door.
You don't interfere with the doctor-why should you with him?
"No, you were asleep."
"The dwarf!" exclaimed Helen, shuddering at the remembrance of what she had gone through at the cottage.
"He's coming again to morrow," added Leopold, almost gleefully, "and then perhaps he will tell me more, and help me on a bit!"
It doesn't take long to know a man then.
For all his hardness and want of sympathy, the curate had yet had regard to her entreaties, and was not going to put any horrid notions about duty and self sacrifice into the poor boy's head!
But when Leopold uttered himself thus, she felt that the current of events had seized her, and that she could only submit to be carried along.
"Why should he not do what he thinks best, Helen?
"Hate him!
No wonder if with such a feeling in his breast Wingfold walked softly, and his face glistened!
She paused, hesitating to enter.
Helen," he said, "that IS a good fellow, SUCH a good fellow!"
You see he's not one to pay young ladies compliments, as I have heard some parsons do; and he may be a little-no, not unpolished, not that-that's not what I mean-but unornamental in his manners!
"You will be able to do without me now," she said sadly.
I wish to be alone."
"What did he say to you?"
The terror of his possible counsel for the moment vanished.
All was still as the grave.
Helen sighed, thinking how ill that had worked with Emmeline.
They parted at the door from the garden, and she returned to the sick room.
I wish you liked him better!--but you will in time.
"I must ask Leopold," returned Helen, who, the better the man was represented, felt the more jealous and fearful of the advice he might give.
"Much what he said to you from the pulpit the other day, I should think."
"When did you come into the room?" he said.
I am not likely to forget you for mr Wingfold, good and kind and strong as he is!
I was as if I had crossed the sea of death and found paradise in your bosom!
"Oh!
"I do.
Leopold did not move. Terror laid hold of her heart.
When a man is going to the bottom as fast as he can, and another comes diving after him-it isn't for me to say how he is to take hold of me.
"You know all!" she faltered.
"I can't see the good of taking more people into our confidence."
"I am so glad you don't hate him."
"I have let him out on the meadow since."
"I did not hear you," he returned.
She turned the handle softly and peeped in: could it be that Wingfold's bearing had communicated to her mind a shadow of the awe with which he had left the place where perhaps a soul was being born again?
"A minute ago," she answered.
I shall never forget the first time I saw you-when I came to this country a lonely little foreigner,--and you, a great beautiful lady, for such you seemed to me, though you have told me since you were only a great gawky girl-I know that could never have been-you ran to meet me, and took me in your arms, and kissed me.
There, to her glad surprise, he lay fast asleep, with the tears not yet dried upon his face.
Her love and her conscience were not yet at one with each other.
She did not answer.
Helen lifted a grateful look from eyes that swam in tears.
"I never could understand taking to people at first sight!"
Who but a demon could hate him?"
"You don't think very badly of my poor brother, do you, mr Wingfold?" said Helen, meekly.
"That is true," returned Leopold; "but then he came to me with his door open, and let me walk in.
Leopold stared, looked half alarmed, and then said,
He is the wisest and best man I have ever known.
Had the curate been a man she liked, she would not perhaps have minded it so much.
The light of a new hope in his eye, as if the dawn had begun at last to break over the dark mountains, was already reflected from her heart.
I do hope his mind will soon be more composed.
"Did God make me sleep, Helen?"
That man's soul is as grand and beautiful and patient as his body is insignificant and distorted and troubled.
SLEEP.
He hasn't got a secret like us, Helen," he added, sadly.
She stepped quickly in, and round the screen to the side of the bed.
Even SHE could not make me forget you, Helen.
I know I took to you at first sight!
"Yes.
"Some people are made so, I suppose, Helen.
"Not I! mr Wingfold is only just gone."
No, Helen; when I trust, I trust out and out."
She led the way down the stair, and walked with him through the garden. Wingfold did not speak.
"It is a terrible fate," he returned.
He could never tell him to give himself up!
"Did he tell you he wants to bring a friend with him?"
He was not aware that the tears stood in his eyes, but Helen saw them.
Into the life I hope your brother will enter."
I think he knows where alone he can find rest.
Hence, I imagine, in part, may the coolness of some criminals be accounted for.
There was no knowing to what he might persuade him!
Her Poldie on the scaffold!
But she must take care that foolish, extravagant curate should not come near him.
Strange it is and true that in publicity itself lies some relief from the gnawing of the worm-as if even a cursing humanity were a barrier of protection between the torn soul and its crime.
But instead of such words of gentle might, like those of the man of whom he was so fond of talking, he had only spoken drearily of duty, hinting at a horror that would plunge the whole ancient family into a hell of dishonour and contempt!
It was all his mother's fault-the fault of her race-and of the horrible drug her people had taught him to take!
It was impossible he should suspect the crime of which her brother had been guilty, and therefore could not know the frightful consequences of such a confession as he had counselled.
Then she remembered how pleased and consoled he had been when she said something about their dying together, and that reassured her a little: no, she was certain Leopold would never yield himself to public shame!
Helen's only knowledge of guilt came from the pale image of it lifted above her horizon by the refraction of her sympathy.
She did not know, perhaps never would understand the ghastly horror of conscious guilt, besides which there is no evil else.
Poor Poldie was so easily led by any show of nobility-anything that looked grand or self sacrificing!
It flees to its kind for shelter from itself.
Their quietness is the relief brought by confession-even confession but to their fellows. Is it that the crime seems then lifted a little from their shoulders, and its weight shared by the ace?
Great God!--And here was the priest actually counselling what was worse than any suicide!
Then indeed, if there be no God, or one that has not an infinite power of setting right that which has gone wrong with his work, then indeed welcome the faith, for faith it may then be called, of such as say there is no hereafter!
If the frightful idea which, she did not doubt, had already suggested itself to Leopold, should now be encouraged, there was nothing but black madness before her!
And was he to go and confess it, and be tried for it, and be-?
She had sought the door of Paradise, and the door of hell had been opened to her!
No; she would venture no farther. Sooner would she go to George Bascombe-from whom she not only could look for no spiritual comfort, but whose theories were so cruel against culprits of all sorts!
A HAUNTED SOUL.
Her physical being was wrenched from her control, and she must simply sit and wait until the power or influence, whichever it might be, should pass away.
Surely, she thought afterwards, she must have been that moment in the presence of something unearthly!
"Something or other-I don't know what exactly," returned Leopold.--"Oh Helen!" he broke out with a cry, stifled by the caution that had grown habitual to both of them, "is there no help of any kind anywhere?
Before God, Poldie, I would after all rather be you than she.
But in all she did for him, she felt like the executioner who gives restoratives to the wretch that has fainted on the rack or the wheel.
"Let her come then, Poldie!
What had he done but utter common places and truisms about duty?
So he lay and moaned, and she sat crushed and speechless with despairing misery.
"Not if I told him everything?" Leopold hissed from between his teeth in the struggle to keep down a shriek.
She turned away, and pretended to search for something she had dropped.
"No, not if you told him everything," she answered, and felt like a judge condemning him to death.
There is so much passes in us of which our consciousness takes no grasp,--or but with such a flitting touch as scarcely to hand it over to the memory-that I feel encouraged to doubt whether ever there was a man absolutely without hope.
"Nonsense, dear Poldie! it was all fancy-nothing more," she returned, in a voice almost as hollow as his; and the lightness of the words uttered in such a tone jarred dismayfully on her own ear.
She shall know that a sister's love is stronger than the hate of a jilt-even if you did kill her.
"I saw her!" he said, in a voice that sounded as if it came from the grave, and she heard it in her heart.
But that was a foolish fancy, and must be resisted!
That I could!--Oh!
"Helen, Helen!" he cried as she entered the room, "come here, close to me."
Helen felt herself grow white.
"What was that, Poldie?" asked Helen with a pang of fear.
She started when she saw him: some change had passed on him since the morning!
All at once Leopold sat straight up, his eyes fixed and flaming, his face white: he looked like a corpse possessed by a spirit of fear and horror.
Perhaps utter hopelessness is the outer darkness.
"I don't think he would be of the slightest use to you," she said, still stooping.
What right had SHE, she thought, to multiply to him his moments of torture?
That there have been, alas, are many, who are aware of no ground of hope, nay even who feel no glimmer in them of anything they can call hope, I know; but I think in them all is an underlying unconscious hope.
Helen had not yet thought of asking herself whether her love to her brother was all clear love, and nowise mingled with selfishness-whether in the fresh horror that day poured into the cup that had seemed already running over, it was of her brother only she thought, or whether threatened shame to herself had not a part in her misery.
"Fancy!" he repeated; "I know what fancy is as well as any man or woman born: THAT was no fancy.
I could trust the man that said such things as those you told me.
The same moment she was free; the horror had departed from her own atmosphere too, and she made haste to restore him.
I think that not one in all the world has more than a shadowy notion of what hopelessness means.
Don't you think he might be able to do something?"
Or was it only in her eyes-was she but reading in his face the agony she had herself gone through that day?
But Leopold seemed not to hear a word she said, and lay with his face to the wall.
ADVICE IN THE DARK.
Without that, I don't care about duty or life or anything."
I know that so long as we hang back from doing what conscience urges, there is no peace for us.
"Perhaps not."
It was some moments before either of them spoke, and it did not help Wingfold that she sat clouded by a dark coloured veil.
"Then to forgive and console me."
"Are you sure," he said at length, "that the person of whom you speak is not neglecting something he ought to do-something he knows perhaps?"
I fear for his brain.
She had gone much farther than she had intended; but the more doubtful help became, the more she was driven by the agony of a perishing hope to search the heart of Wingfold.
In the strength of this much of conscious truth I venture to say-that no crime can be committed against a creature without being committed also against the creator of that creature; therefore surely the first step for anyone who has committed such a crime must be to humble himself before God, confess the sin, and ask forgiveness and cleansing.
Still I have something more to say, and hesitate only because it may imply more confidence than I dare profess, and of all things I dread untruth.
"I can do nothing with that.
He had come back to the same with which he started.
He would rather be punished than consoled.
"He wouldn't heed you."
"Will you not tell me something about it?" said the curate, yet more gently.
Again the curate pondered.
"Can you tell me," she said, from behind more veils than that of lace, "how to get rid of a haunting idea?"
I will not say our prayers are not heard, for mr Polwarth has taught me that the most precious answer prayer can have, lies in the growing strength of the impulse towards the dreaded duty, and in the ever sharper stings of the conscience.
"Then you must of course make all possible reparation," answered Wingfold at once.
"At least," he said at length, "you could confess the wrong, and ask forgiveness."
The curate paused, but, receiving no assistance, ventured on again.
"I'm not sure about that."
She tried hard, but could not prevent a sob.
Again the curate took time to reply.
"You must not fear to trust me because I doubt my ability to help you. I can at least assure you of my sympathy.
"I speak from experience," the curate went on-"from what else could I speak?
"Then you think confession to God is all that is required?"
"Alas! alas! that he will not hear of.
Possibly there is something you ought to do and are not doing, and that is why you cannot rest.
"Because then I could have said, you know where to go for comfort.--Might it not be well however to try if there is any to be had from him that said 'COME UNTO ME, AND I WILL GIVE YOU REST?'"
"Such things sometimes arise merely from the state of the health, and there the doctor is the best help."
"But if none were possible-what then?"
"Tell me, then, what is the matter; I MAY be able to hint at some hope," said Wingfold, very gently.
I have known that kind of thing. Tell me some fact or some feeling I can lay hold of.
"If it be a thought of something past and gone, for which nothing can be done, I think activity in one's daily work must be the best aid to endurance."
"Do you call yourself a Christian?"
"Then give me some food-some hope, I mean, and try me again.
If there is anything in religion at all it must rest upon an actual individual communication between God and the creature he has made; and if God heard the man's prayer and forgave him, then the man would certainly know it in his heart and be consoled-perhaps by the gift of humility."
"What would you do then?"
Yesterday, when I got alone in the park, I prayed aloud: I thought that perhaps, even if he might not be able to read what was in my heart, he might be able to hear my voice.
Her voice had sunk almost to a groan.
"Perhaps Jesus has begun to give you help, though you do not know it yet," he said, "His help may be on the way to you, or even with you, only you do not recognize it for what it is.
"Suppose it were a great wrong that had been done, and that was the unendurable thought?
SUPPOSE, I say, that was what made me miserable!"
This State recreation park and forest reserve of about four thousand acres-a labyrinth of idyllic footpaths and leafy trails, of twisting drives and walks that open out upon superb vistas, is now the property of the people of Massachusetts.
That peculiar odor of sweetness which drifts to us with a turn of the wind, comes from a chocolate mill whose trade mark of a neat handed maid with her little tray is known all over the civilized world.
So let us come down, for, after all, "Love is of the valley." Down again to the old town of Milton.
But as the eye grows accustomed to the stretching distances, objects both near and far begin to appear.
The avenue, however, was never completed, as Belcher was appointed governor of, and transferred to, New Jersey shortly after.
Yes, wherever one goes in Milton, either on foot to day or back through the chapters of three centuries ago, the Blue Hills dominate every event, and the Great Blue Hill floats above them all.
Although its Indian name has been taken from this lovely range, the loveliness remains.
And those mills stand upon the site of the first grist mill in New England to be run by water power.
The next group to the right is in Lyndeboro.
We have not half begun to wander over it: not half begun to hear the pleasant stories it has to tell. When one is as old as this-for Milton was discovered by a band from Plymouth who came up the Neponset River in sixteen twenty one--one has many tales to tell.
Two other men of note, who, since the days of our years are but threescore and ten, chose that their days without number should be spent in the town they loved, were Wendell Phillips and Rimmer the sculptor, who are both buried at Milton.
You may see, too, a solitary figure with a scientist's stoop, or a tutor with a group of boys, making a first-hand study of a region which is full of interest to the geologist.
Nothing is left of this quaint structure but a small bronze bas relief, set against a stone wall, near its original site.
From the point of view of topography the summit of Great Blue Hill is the place to reach.
Those who are familiar with the State of Massachusetts-and New England-can stand here and pick out a hundred distinguishing landmarks, and those who have never been here before may find an unparalleled opportunity to see the whole region at one sweep of the eye.
As you pass through the Reservation-and if you are taking even the most cursory glimpse of Milton you must include some portion of this park-you will pass the open space where in the early days, when Milton country life was modeled upon English country life more closely than now, Malcolm Forbes raced upon his private track the horses he himself had bred.
Here is the old, old garden, and although the ephemeral blossoms of the present springtime shine brightly forth, the box, full twenty feet high, speaks of another epoch.
All ground is historic ground in Milton.
This, then, is the Great Blue Hill of Milton.
But for the sense of mysterious beauty, for snatches of pictures one will never forget, the little vistas which open on the upward or the downward trail, framed by hanging boughs or encircled by a half frame of stone and hillside-these are, perhaps, more lovely.
The granite quarry man-far more interested in the value of the stone that underlay the wooded slopes than in Ruskin's theory of its purifying effect upon the inhabitants-had already obtained a footing here, when, under the able leadership of Charles Francis Adams, the whole region was taken over by the State in eighteen ninety four.
MILTON AND THE BLUE HILLS
This early church and early school was a log cabin with a thatched roof and latticed windows, if one may believe the relief, but men of brains and character were taught there lessons which stood them and the colony in good stead.
"I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help," chants the psalmist.
The Great Blue Hill, especially-the one which bears an observatory on its summit-swims above one's head.
Facing nearly south, the long ridge of Manomet Hill in Plymouth, thirty three miles away, stands clear against the sky, while twenty six miles away, in Duxbury, one sees the Myles Standish Monument.
From them the Massachuset tribe about the Bay derived its name, signifying "Near the Great Hills," which name was changed by the English to Massachusetts, and applied to both bay and colony.
Not only notable personages, but notable events have been engendered under the shadow of these hills.
But modern Milton is something more than this, as old Milton was something more than this.
That rollicking group of schoolboys yonder belongs to an academy, which, handsome and flourishing as it is to day, was founded as long ago as seventeen eighty seven.
That seems long ago, but there was a school in Milton before that: a school held in the first meeting house.
Chapter two
This is the view that the Governor so admired, and tradition tells us that when he was forced to return to England he walked on foot down the hill, shaking hands with his neighbors, patriot and Tory alike, with tears in his eyes as he left behind him the garden and the trees he had planted, and the house where he had so happily lived.
At the right of Lyndeboro, and nearly over the Readville railroad stations, is Joe English Hill, and to complete the round, nearly north northwest are the summits of the Uncanoonuc Mountains, fifty nine miles away.
How much of its success Milton attributes to its location-for one joins, indeed, a distinguished fellowship when one builds upon a hill, or on several hills, as Roman as well as Bostonian history testifies-can only be guessed by its tribute in the form of the Blue Hills Reservation.
Milton-a town of dignity and distinction!
Foxgloves lean against the "pleached alley," and roses clamber on a wall that doubtless bore the weight of their first progenitors.
Circling thus around the base of the Great Blue Hill and irresistibly drawn closer and closer to it as by a magnet, one is impelled to make the ascent to the top-an easy ascent with its destination clearly marked by the Rotch Meteorological Observatory erected in eighteen eighty four by the late a Lawrence Rotch of Milton, who bequeathed funds for its maintenance.
One fancies the students' roving eyes may have occasionally strayed down the Indian trail directly opposite the old site-a trail which, although now attained to the proud rank of a lane, Churchill's Lane, still invites one down its tangled green way along the gray stone wall.
The rounded summits of the Blue Hills, to which the eye is irresistibly attracted before entering the town which principally claims them, are the worn down stumps of ancient mountains, and although so leveled by the process of the ages, they are still the highest land near the coast from Maine to Mexico.
We are six hundred and thirty five feet above the sea, on the highest coastland from Agamenticus, near York, Maine, to the Rio Grande, and the panorama thus unrolled is truly magnificent.
Near by, descendants of Samuel Lincoln, the ancestor of Abraham, occupy part of another roomy ancient homestead.
There is no idle talk or play.
After the morning service there is a noon intermission, in which the half frozen congregation stirs around, eats cold luncheons brought in baskets, and then returns to the next session.
And why not, when the very house is still handsomely preserved, where the nameless nobleman, Francis Le Baron, was concealed between the floors, and, as we are told in mrs Austen's novel, very properly capped the climax by marrying his brave little protector, Molly Wilder? Why not, when the Lincoln family, ancestors of Abraham, has been identified with the town since its settlement?
In fact, after the tolling of the last bell, the houses may all be searched-each ten families is under an inspector-if there is any question of delinquents hiding in them.
"Which way to Egypt?" Is this an echo from that time when the Bible was the corner stone of Church and State, of home and school?
Hingham changes.
The congregation either waits for the minister and his wife outside the door, or stands until he has entered the pulpit.
The original backless benches were replaced by box pews with narrow seats like shelves, hung on hinges around three sides, but part of the original pulpit remains and a few of the box pews.
In sixteen eighty one the interior, like the exterior, is sternly bare.
Yes, New England has changed amazingly in the revolutions of three centuries, and here, under the shadow of this square plain building-Hingham's Old Ship Church-while we pause to watch the Sunday pageant of nineteen twenty, we can most easily call back the Sabbath rites, and the ideals which created those rites, three centuries ago.
In the spacious living room are seventeen panels, on the walls and in the doors, painted with charming old-fashioned skill by john Hazlitt, the brother of the English essayist.
A strange procession, indeed, for a road originally marked by the moccasined feet of Indians, and widened gradually by the toilsome journeyings of rough Colonial carts and coaches.
One cannot speak of Hingham churches-indeed, one cannot speak of Hingham-without admiring mention of the New North Church.
This performance alone sometimes takes an hour, as there is no organ, nor notes, and only a few copies of the Bay psalm Book, of which, by the way, a copy now would be worth many times its weight in gold.
The people are very proud of their new building.
Every one is expected, nay, commanded, to come to church.
It was religious zeal which furnished this motive power.
The belfry is precisely in the center of the four sided pitched roof.
Hingham, its Main Street-alas for the original name of "Bachelors Rowe"--arched by a double row of superb elms on either side, is incalculably rich in old houses, old traditions, old families.
That they are interminable we know.
But is the message cheering?
The sermon is discussed and the children forbidden to romp or laugh.
Even your voice repeats the words which those old patriarchs, well versed in Biblical lore, chose for their neighborhood names.
It was this high pitch, attained and sustained by our Puritan fathers, which produced a dramatic and sometimes terrible blend of personality.
In the first place, they are well attended.
CHAPTER five
The house of Major General Benjamin Lincoln, who received the sword of Cornwallis at Yorktown, is still occupied by his descendants, its neat fence, many windows, two chimneys, and its two stories and a half proclaiming it a dwelling of repute.
It is easy to emphasize its absurdities, to ridicule the almost fanatical fervor which goaded men to harshness and inconsistency.
Even motoring through, too quickly as motorists must, one cannot help being struck by the substantial dignity of the place, by the well kept prosperity of the houses, large and small, which fringe the fine old highway.
These two small galleries, between the roof and the choir loft, held for thirty years, in diminishing numbers, negroes and Indians.
Those whom it now tortures with its hot pincers of doubt and self reproach are sacrificed to a cause long since won."
The small boys are separated from their families and kept in order by tithing men who allow no wandering eyes or whispered words.
There is a Roman Catholic Church in the very heart of that one-time Puritan stronghold: the New North is Unitarian, and Episcopalians, Baptists, and Second Adventists have settled down comfortably where once they would have been run out of town.
And yet, forlorn and tedious as the bleak service appears to us, there is no doubt that these stern faced men and women wrenched an almost mystical inspiration from it; that a weird fascination emanated from this morbid dwelling on sin and punishment, appealing to the emotions quite as vividly-although through a different channel-as the most elaborate ceremonial.
And this moral stamina has marked New England ever since, and marked her to her glory.
I am unclean!
"Then give me a drink," said Javert.
He entered the tap room.
Only, he thought of Cosette with a pang at his heart.
He raised his eyes, and recognized Jean Valjean. He did not even start, but dropped his lids proudly and confined himself to the remark: "It is perfectly simple."
The real governed by the true, that is the goal. Civilization will hold its assizes at the summit of Europe, and, later on, at the centre of continents, in a grand parliament of the intelligence.
CHAPTER five-THE HORIZON WHICH ONE BEHOLDS FROM THE SUMMIT OF A BARRICADE
One of them wept as he took his leave.
"You are not tender to have left me to pass the night here.
"Wait.
We need all our cartridges just at present."
There was no applause; but they whispered together for a long time.
Let the reader recall the state of his soul.
His judgment was disturbed.
To conquer matter is the first step; to realize the ideal is the second. Reflect on what progress has already accomplished.
Javert replied: "When are you going to kill me?"
We affirm it on this barrier.
By way of further security, and by means of a rope fastened to his neck, they added to the system of ligatures which rendered every attempt at escape impossible, that sort of bond which is called in prisons a martingale, which, starting at the neck, forks on the stomach, and meets the hands, after passing between the legs.
Why was he there?
Leaving his arms tied behind his back, they placed about his feet a slender but stout whip cord, as is done to men on the point of mounting the scaffold, which allowed him to take steps about fifteen inches in length, and made him walk to the table at the end of the room, where they laid him down, closely bound about the middle of the body.
Here misery meets the ideal.
He was engaged in thought; he quivered, as at the passage of prophetic breaths; places where death is have these effects of tripods. A sort of stifled fire darted from his eyes, which were filled with an inward look.
CHAPTER six-MARIUS HAGGARD, JAVERT LACONIC
Javert, still bound to the post, was engaged in meditation.
Yes, instruction! light!
Equality has an organ: gratuitous and obligatory instruction.
"The whole army of Paris is to strike.
The municipal guardsmen were attended to first.
"Caesar," said Combeferre, "fell justly.
The lofty house which formed the back of the barricade, being turned to the East, had upon its roof a rosy reflection.
LONG LIVE THE PEOPLES!
Birds flew about in it with cries of joy.
CHAPTER three-LIGHT AND SHADOW
The barricade had been put in order, the tap room disencumbered, the kitchen appropriated for the ambulance, the dressing of the wounded completed, the powder scattered on the ground and on the tables had been gathered up, bullets run, cartridges manufactured, lint scraped, the fallen weapons re distributed, the interior of the redoubt cleaned, the rubbish swept up, corpses removed.
They waited for it with a smile.
With that facility of triumphant prophecy which is one of the sources of strength in the French combatant, they divided the day which was at hand into three distinct phases.
They had raised it two feet.
They had no more doubt as to their success than as to their cause.
This moment was brief.
The barricade had been not only repaired, but augmented.
The staircase of paving stones which permitted one to mount it like the wall of a citadel had been reconstructed.
I have picked out the shakos of the fifth of the line, and the standard bearers of the sixth legion.
"It is a corrective.
He was a great man; so much the worse, or so much the better; the lesson is but the more exalted.
The redoubt had been cleverly made over, into a wall on the inside and a thicket on the outside.
The insurgents, we will remark, were full of hope.
"So be it.
It had the appearance of being afraid.
"What is the cat?" he exclaimed.
Citizens, let us offer the protests of corpses. Let us show that, if the people abandon the republicans, the republicans do not abandon the people."
The sky was of that charming, undecided hue, which may be white and may be blue.
He interdicted wine, and portioned out the brandy.
There were still thirty seven of them.
Still, only three or four took advantage of it.
Let us raise the barricade to a height of twenty feet, and let us all remain in it.
The mouse, plus the cat, is the proof of creation revised and corrected."
Cicero is an arbiter in thought, just as Brutus is an arbiter by the sword.
The torch, which had been replaced in its cavity in the pavement, had just been extinguished.
About two o'clock in the morning, they reckoned up their strength.
He returned from his sombre eagle flight into outer darkness.
They reckoned on it.
In the tap room there remained only Mabeuf under his black cloth and Javert bound to his post.
The manner in which they had repulsed the attack of the preceding night had caused them to almost disdain in advance the attack at dawn.
The light of torches resembles the wisdom of cowards; it gives a bad light because it trembles."
All these hopes were exchanged between the different groups in a sort of gay and formidable whisper which resembled the warlike hum of a hive of bees.
Caesar is stabbed by the senators; Christ is cuffed by lackeys.
No repast had been possible.
The cat is the erratum of the mouse.
Dawn awakens minds as it does the birds; all began to talk.
There is the National Guard in addition.
One feels the God through the greater outrage."
That is deserting one's family.
He looked on at everything as from without; as we have said, things which passed before him seemed far away; he made out the whole, but did not perceive the details.
Still, at this idea, that of choosing a man for death, his blood rushed back to his heart.
The barricade is hemmed in."
"Because not one will go away."
Think of the street, think of the pavement covered with passers by, think of the shops past which women go and come with necks all bare, and through the mire.
Strange contradictions of the human heart at its most sublime moments. Combeferre, who spoke thus, was not an orphan.
They replied:
He would have turned pale, had it been possible for him to become any paler.
Are there women or are there not?
There are other beings of whom you must think. You must not be egoists."
A sort of mud was found in his stomach.
Combeferre has said convincing things to you.
But this moved him.
He said nothing.
"Well," began the five, "one must stay behind."
We know well what you are; we know well that you are all brave, parbleu! we know well that you all have in your souls the joy and the glory of giving your life for the great cause; we know well that you feel yourselves elected to die usefully and magnificently, and that each one of you clings to his share in the triumph.
When one supports one's relatives by one's toil, one has not the right to sacrifice one's self.
Do you know what the question is here?
All dropped their heads with a gloomy air.
Young girls without bread-that is a terrible thing.
Ah! you want to get yourselves killed, so do I-I, who am speaking to you; but I do not want to feel the phantoms of women wreathing their arms around me.
"Welcome, citizen."
If the duty of some is to depart, that duty should be fulfilled like any other."
There were ashes in his teeth.
See here.
'Whence come you?' 'Don't you belong to the barricade?' And they will look at your hands.
"Make haste," said Courfeyrac, "in another quarter of an hour it will be too late."
"Long live death!
His breathing was hoarse, his face livid, his limbs flaccid, his belly prominent.
Let such leave the ranks."
After the expiration of a few minutes, five were unanimously selected and stepped out of the ranks.
CHAPTER four-MINUS FIVE, PLUS ONE
They obeyed.
There were only four uniforms.
Despair, also, has its ecstasy.
If you spoke to him, he did not answer.
These great revolutionary barricades were assembling points for heroism. The improbable was simple there.
At that moment, a fifth uniform fell, as if from heaven, upon the other four.
Poor people had taken him in out of charity, but they had bread only for themselves.
And those who have daughters!
He is dead.
Then his glance dropped to the four uniforms.
Die, if you will, but don't make others die.
And tomorrow?
Are there children or are there not?
They emerged thence a moment later.
This guarantee satisfied every one.
My friends, there is a morrow; you will not be here to morrow, but your families will; and what sufferings!
He had but one idea now, to die; and he did not wish to be turned aside from it, but he reflected, in his gloomy somnambulism, that while destroying himself, he was not prohibited from saving some one else.
Statistics show that the mortality among abandoned children is fifty five per cent. I repeat, it is a question of women, it concerns mothers, it concerns young girls, it concerns little children.
He advanced towards the five, who smiled upon him, and each, with his eyes full of that grand flame which one beholds in the depths of history hovering over Thermopylae, cried to him:
Vain glory is waste.
what are you thinking of?
It is a question of women.
Why sacrifice forty?"
Combeferre followed, carrying the shoulder belts and the shakos.
Go."--"It is your duty rather," retorted the man, "you have two sisters whom you maintain."--And an unprecedented controversy broke forth.
"Do you designate who is to remain."
See, here is a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss,--and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned?
Who is talking to you of yourselves?
At the moment when Jean Valjean entered the redoubt, no one had noticed him, all eyes being fixed on the five chosen men and the four uniforms. Jean Valjean also had seen and heard, and he had silently removed his coat and flung it on the pile with the rest.
You say: 'I have a gun, I am at the barricade; so much the worse, I shall remain there.' So much the worse is easily said.
These men did not astonish each other.
Combeferre took the word.
Do you yourselves designate those who are to go."
"Come," said he, "you must have a little pity.
You smell of powder. Shot."
He did not cry. You could see him approach the stove, in which there was never any fire, and whose pipe, you know, was of mastic and yellow clay.
mr Poyser had just entered in shirt sleeves and open waistcoat, with a face a shade redder than usual, from the exertion of "pitching." As he stood, red, rotund, and radiant, before the small, wiry, cool old gentleman, he looked like a prize apple by the side of a withered crab.
On the other hand, Poyser, you might let Thurle have the Lower and Upper Ridges, which really, with our wet seasons, would be a good riddance for you. There is much less risk in dairy land than corn land."
"Do you know, mrs Poyser-sit down, pray, both of you-I've been far from contented, for some time, with mrs Satchell's dairy management.
Meanwhile the bull dog, the black and tan terrier, Alick's sheep dog, and the gander hissing at a safe distance from the pony's heels carried out the idea of mrs Poyser's solo in an impressive quartet.
I must have your opinion too."
I don't expect that mrs Satchell's cream and butter will bear comparison with yours."
"That difficulty-about the fetching and carrying-you will not have, mrs Poyser," said the squire, who thought that this entrance into particulars indicated a distant inclination to compromise on mrs Poyser's part.
However, she said, "Your servant, sir," and curtsied with an air of perfect deference as she advanced towards him: she was not the woman to misbehave towards her betters, and fly in the face of the catechism, without severe provocation.
Unfortunately, my slight tendency to rheumatism makes me afraid of damp: I'll sit down in your comfortable kitchen.
I like these premises, do you know, beyond any on the estate."
"Is your husband at home, mrs Poyser?"
"Thank you; I will do so.
He was much too acute a man not to see through the whole business, and to foresee perfectly what would be his wife's view of the subject; but he disliked giving unpleasant answers.
"And you keep it so exquisitely clean, mrs Poyser.
I think she has not a good method, as you have."
"I can't say, sir, I'm sure.
"I think I see the door open, there.
It's seldom I see other folks's butter, though there's some on it as one's no need to see-the smell's enough."
"Hetty, run and tell your uncle to come in," said mrs Poyser, as they entered the house, and the old gentleman bowed low in answer to Hetty's curtsy; while Totty, conscious of a pinafore stained with gooseberry jam, stood hiding her face against the clock and peeping round furtively.
mrs Poyser "Has Her Say Out"
Ah, Poyser, how do you do?
Thank you, that really is a pleasant sight.
I want to consult him about a little matter; but you are quite as much concerned in it, if not more.
But I don't want to part with an old tenant like you."
Now, the plan I'm thinking of is to effect a little exchange.
"Say?
"Will you please to take this chair, sir?" he said, lifting his father's arm chair forward a little: "you'll find it easy."
"And now, Poyser, as Satchell is laid up, I am intending to let the Chase Farm to a respectable tenant.
"Not yet; I must see your dairy.
The Eve of the Trial
Adam was silent: the last words had called up a vivid image of the past, and mr Irwine left him to his thoughts, while he spoke to Bartle Massey about old mr Donnithorne's funeral and other matters of an indifferent kind.
His face has got thinner this last week: he has the sunken eyes, the neglected beard of a man just risen from a sick bed.
"no
But he stood still then, and looked at mr Irwine, as if he had a question to ask which it was yet difficult to utter.
"Adam, he WILL know-he WILL suffer, long and bitterly.
It is ten o'clock on Thursday night, and the dark wall opposite the window shuts out the moonlight that might have struggled with the light of the one dip candle by which Bartle Massey is pretending to read, while he is really looking over his spectacles at Adam Bede, seated near the dark window.
"I'm late, Adam," he said, sitting down on the chair which Bartle placed for him, "but I was later in setting off from Broxton than I intended to be, and I have been incessantly occupied since I arrived.
Adam took his chair again mechanically, and Bartle, for whom there was no chair remaining, sat on the bed in the background.
Adam started up from his chair and seized his hat, which lay on the table.
"Yes, Adam; I and the chaplain have both been with her this evening."
She didn't seem agitated when I mentioned your name; she only said 'No,' in the same cold, obstinate way as usual. And if the meeting had no good effect on her, it would be pure, useless suffering to you-severe suffering, I fear.
Remember what you told me about your feelings after you had given that blow to Arthur in the Grove."
She is very much changed..."
"He is come; he is in Stoniton to night.
His own mind is in a very perturbed state, and it is best he should not see you till you are calmer."
I have done everything now, however-everything that can be done to night, at least. Let us all sit down."
But think of this: if you were to obey your passion-for it IS passion, and you deceive yourself in calling it justice-it might be with you precisely as it has been with Arthur; nay, worse; your passion might lead you yourself into a horrible crime."
He is roused by a knock at the door.
AN upper room in a dull Stoniton street, with two beds in it-one laid on the floor.
Three or four days ago, before you were mentioned to her, when I asked her if there was any one of her family whom she would like to see-to whom she could open her mind-she said, with a violent shudder, 'Tell them not to come near me-I won't see any of them.'"
I had a conversation with her-she pleased me a good deal. And now you mention it, I wish she would come, for it is possible that a gentle mild woman like her might move Hetty to open her heart.
"But you don't mind about it," said Adam indignantly.
"Yes, I did.
"You needn't be afraid of me. I only want justice.
Bartle Massey rose quietly, turned the key in the door, and put it in his pocket.
His heavy black hair hangs over his forehead, and there is no active impulse in him which inclines him to push it off, that he may be more awake to what is around him.
As mr Irwine paused, Adam looked at him with eager, questioning eyes.
I fear you have not been out again to day."
"Arthur Donnithorne is not come back-was not come back when I left.
"Is he come back?" said Adam at last.
God bless you.
Adam rose from his chair with instinctive respect, as mr Irwine approached him and took his hand.
"No, he is not," said mr Irwine, quietly.
No amount of torture that you could inflict on him could benefit her."
It was a fitting fulfillment of the Declaration of Independence, which proclaimed that:
Instead of leaving the drunkard to the fate the other fellows thought he deserved, Abe Lincoln, through pity for the helpless, rescued a fellow being not only from mud and cold but also from a drunkard's grave.
Let none attempt it.
At last the time had come to announce the freeing of the slaves that they might help in winning their liberties.
Once, as President, he said to a boy who had just signed the temperance pledge:
In his first school "composition," on "Cruelty to Animals," his stepsister remembers this sentence: "An ant's life is as sweet to it as ours is to us."
Turning back to the table, he took the pen again and wrote, deliberately and firmly, the "Abraham Lincoln" with which the world is now familiar. Looking up at the Sewards, father and son, he smiled and said, with a sigh of relief:
Turning to his Secretary of State, he said, to explain his hesitation:
"'Gentlemen, did you ever read anything from "Artemus Ward?" Let me read you a chapter that is very funny.'
The extreme Abolitionists, who wished slavery abolished, whether or no, sent men to tell the President that if he did not free the slaves he was a coward and a turncoat, and they would withhold their support from the Government and the Army.
CHAPTER eighteen
I have made up my mind that this paper is to issue; that the time is come when it should issue; that the people are ready for it to issue.
At noon on the first of January, eighteen sixty three, William h Seward, Secretary of State, with his son Frederick, called at the White House with the Emancipation document to be signed by the President.
He called the Cabinet together.
THE QUESTION OF EMANCIPATION
Edwin m Stanton, the Secretary of War, has described the scene:
In solemn awe we pronounce the name and, in its naked, deathless splendor, leave it shining on."
"'I am not feeling very well.
"He then put his hand in his tall hat that sat upon the table, and pulled out a little paper.
Now the "chance to hit that thing"--the inhuman monster of human slavery-had come, and he was going to "hit it hard."
He finally turned to us and said:
To declare all the slaves down South freed, when the Government could not enforce such a statement and could not even win a battle, would be absurd.
President Lincoln was true and consistent in his temperance principles. In March, eighteen sixty four, he went by steamboat with his wife and "Little Tad," to visit General Grant at his headquarters at City Point, Virginia.
"All men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."
"Here I am, studying this question, day and night, and God has placed it upon me, too.
It cannot be.
It was young Lincoln's patriotic love for George Washington which did so much to bring about, in time, a double emancipation from white slavery and black.
mr Lincoln seated himself at his table, took up the pen, dipped it in the ink, held the pen a moment, then laid it down.
I have prepared a little paper of much significance.
HOW EMANCIPATION CAME TO PASS
"And as I look back upon it, I think the President was right."
Henceforth I see the light and the country is saved.'
"'He hesitated.'"
President, if the reading of chapters of "Artemus Ward" is a prelude to such a deed as this, the book should be filed among the archives of the nation, and the author should be canonized.
But the paper is to issue.'
"'Well,' he said, 'let's have another chapter.'
"'It is due to my Cabinet that you should be the first to hear and know of it, and if any of you have any suggestions to make as to the form of this paper or its composition, I shall be glad to hear them.
He recognized his close relationship with the black man, and the bitterest name his enemies called him-worse in their minds than "fool," "clown," "imbecile" or "gorilla"--was a "Black Republican." That terrible phobia against the negro only enlisted Abraham Lincoln's sympathies the more.
They could not know, for mr Lincoln dared not tell them, that he had the Emancipation Proclamation in his pocket waiting for a Federal victory before he could issue it!
The other party did not wish the matter tampered with, as cheap labor was necessary for raising cotton, sugar and other products on which the living of millions of people depended.
THE PROCLAMATION
As you have read on an earlier page, when Abe grew to be a big, strong boy he saved a drunken man from freezing in the mud, by carrying him to a cabin, building a fire, and spent the rest of the night warming and sobering him up.
Thus Abe helped him throw off the shackles of drink and made a man of him.
It was a little book.
"Now, Sonny, keep that pledge and it will be the best act of your life."
He appeared in court in behalf of colored people, time and again.
Secretary Stanton continued: "I have always tried to be calm, but I think I lost my calmness for a moment, and with great enthusiasm I arose, approached the President, extended my hand and said:
It was just after the regular New Year's Day reception.
"Not a member of the Cabinet smiled; as for myself, I was angry, and looked to see what the President meant.
He patiently explained to them that his declaring them free would not make them free.
"'mr
Going always with the President, he had heard his "Papa day" say of several youths condemned to be shot for sleeping at their post or some like offense:
A friend stepped out on the northern portico with him to hold the candle by which mr Lincoln was to read his speech.
CHAPTER twenty one
"You must not be so careless.
mr Lincoln had written a short address for the occasion.
It was his pet name for the dearest man on earth, and it was his only way of expressing the greatest pleasure his boyish heart was able to hold.
A word from his father would melt the lad to tears and submission, or bring him out of a nervous tantrum with his small round face wreathed with smiles, and a chuckling in his throat of "Papa day, my papa day!" No one knew exactly what the boy meant by papa day.
The times were so out of joint and every word was so important that the President could not trust himself to speak off hand.
"Papa day's happy.
mr
"If he don't know any better than that," said one man, "he should be taught better.
We will fight for him; yes, we will die for him."
A call for national thanksgiving is being prepared and will be duly promulgated."
"Give the boys a chance," was Abraham Lincoln's motto.
That was the meaning of their song as they trooped to the front at his call:
Young though he was he could not sleep long at night.
There was a moment of silence.
Then he fell into his first sweet sleep since that terrible night.
"Papa day, where's my Papa day.
It was a part of the little game they were constantly playing together.
I'm tired-tired of playing alone.
The evacuation of Petersburg and Richmond, and the surrender of the principal insurgent army (at Appomattox) give hope of a righteous and speedy peace whose joyous expression cannot be restrained.
In the midst of this, however, He from whom all blessings flow must not be forgotten.
Please, Papa day, come back and play with your little Tad."
It was Tuesday evening, april eleventh eighteen sixty five.
When the pages came too slowly the boy pulled his father's coat tail, piping up in a muffled, excited tone:
Some of the people gasped, as they had done when they saw Tad waving the Confederate flag at the window.
"We are coming, Father Abraham; Three hundred thousand more."
THE END
"Yes, yes, I'm sure he's happy there, Taddie dear; now go to sleep."
A few days after the war ended at Appomattox, a great crowd came to the White House to serenade the President.
For this, as for all the inequities the great heart of the White House was prepared.
"With malice toward none; with charity for all."
As mr Lincoln came in through the door after speaking to the crowd, mrs Lincoln-who had been, with a group of friends, looking on from within-exclaimed to him:
"Papa day, where's my Papa day?"
"Your papa's gone 'way off"--said his companion, his voice breaking with emotion-"gone to heaven."
Little Tad was with his father, as usual, and when the President had finished reading a page of his manuscript he let it flutter down, like a leaf, or a big white butterfly, for Tad to catch.
They have killed my Papa day!"
"Give me 'nother paper, Papa day."
LIEUTENANT TAD LINCOLN, PATRIOT
Tad, of course, could not comprehend why any one could be so cruel and wicked as to wish to murder his darling Papa day, who loved every one so!
When the man spoke to comfort him, Tad would find out his terrible mistake, that his father was not with him.
"Give us 'Dixie,' boys; play 'Dixie.' We have a right to that tune now."
But it hurt him deep in his heart to know that some of his beloved children misunderstood him so that they were willing to kill him!
He wandered through the empty rooms, aching with loneliness, murmuring softly to himself:
"Tom Pen, Tom Pen, they have killed Papa day!
But the heart of little Tad had been broken.
"With malice toward none, with charity for all," was the rule of his life in the backwoods as well as in the National Capital.
He takes our part.
Then he went on outlining a policy of peace and friendship toward the South-showing a spirit far higher and more advanced than that of the listening crowd.
LINCOLN'S LAST SPEECH AND HOW TAD HELPED
To the few in the front of the crowd who witnessed this little by play it seemed ridiculous that the President of the United States should allow any child to behave like that and hamper him while delivering a great address which would wield a national, if not world-wide influence. But little Tad did not trouble his father in the least.
Many laughed, but some spectators thought the boy ought to be punished for such a treasonable outbreak on the part of a President's boy in a soldier's uniform.
I want to play together.
This would have changed the grand result of the war.
CHAPTER nineteen
It came at a terrible time in the progress of the war, when everything seemed to be going against the Union.
Not long after the conflict at Gettysburg a movement was on foot to devote a large part of that battle ground to a national cemetery.
About noon on the nineteenth of November, the distinguished party arrived in a procession and took seats on the platform erected for the exercises.
During the forenoon of the eighteenth, Secretary john Hay was anxious lest the President be late for the special Presidential train, which was to leave at noon for Gettysburg.
This was too much for her.
In point of numbers, bravery and genius, the battle of Gettysburg was the greatest that had ever been fought up to that time.
I had an awful time pulling you up out of there, and I couldn't stick you back again!"
"You're a sweet little rosebud yourself.
"I will tell you how it was.
But Lincoln's spirits were bound to rise.
A youth who stood near the platform in front of the President says that, while mr Everett was orating, mr Lincoln took his "little speech," as he called it, out of his pocket, and conned it over like a schoolboy with a half learned lesson.
Those who planned the dedication did not think the poor cobbler was of much account.
When that modest woman "came to," she saw fifteen thousand pairs of eyes watching her while the President of the United States was fanning her tenderly.
As it was expected that the President would make a few offhand remarks, no one seems to have noticed its simple grandeur until it was printed in the newspapers.
Lee was driven back from Maryland then, it is true, but he soon won the great battles of Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville, and had made his way north into Pennsylvania.
The President was asked, if he could, to come and make a few dedicatory remarks, but mr Everett was to be the chief speaker of the occasion.
I want to go-back to-my husband!"
Even the battle of Antietam, accounted victory enough for the President to issue his Emancipation Proclamation, proved to be a drawn battle, with terrific losses on both sides.
The night after the battle of Chancellorsville (fought may second and three d, eighteen sixty three), was the darkest in the history of the Civil War.
That afternoon there was a patriotic service in one of the churches which the President decided to attend.
The President had put the finishing touches on it that morning.
He reached out, took her up and kissed her, saying:
THE BATTLE
Glorious as this was, the greatest glory of Gettysburg lay in the experiences and utterances of one man, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America.
It was a warm day and a Quaker woman near the platform fainted.
There were fifteen thousand people waiting, some of whom had been standing in the sun for hours.
She gasped:
If Lee had been victorious there, he might have destroyed Philadelphia and New York.
There had been four disastrous defeats-twice at Bull Run, followed by Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville.
"I feel-better-now.
The fact that the President was speaking was sufficient, no matter what he said.
President Lincoln walked the floor the whole night long, crying out in his anguish, "O what will the country say!"
As this printed address covered two newspaper pages, mr Lincoln struck an attitude and quoted from a speech by Daniel Webster:
Northern New Hampshire, the whole of Vermont, and Western Massachusetts had no human tenants but the roving hunter or prowling warrior.
Some paid yearly tribute to their tyrants, while others were still subject to their inroads, flying in terror at the sound of the Mohawk war cry.
Here all was changed.
Landing at Boston, three years before a solitude, let the traveller push northward, pass the River Piscataqua and the Penacooks, and cross the River Saco.
Here, a change of dialect would indicate a different tribe, or group of tribes.
The heresy of heresies had planted itself among them; and it was for the apostle Eliot, not the Jesuit, to essay their conversion.
Westward, the population thinned rapidly; northward, it soon disappeared.
To speak further of them is needless, for they were not within the scope of the Jesuit labors.
From the Gulf of saint Lawrence to Lake Ontario, the southern border of the great river had no tenants but hunters.
Fear, too, drove, them eastward; for the Iroquois pursued them with an inveterate enmity.
On the whole, these savages were favorable specimens of the Algonquin stock, belonging to that section of it which tilled the soil, and was thus in some measure spared the extremes of misery and degradation to which the wandering hunter tribes were often reduced.
Populous towns, rude fortifications, and an extensive, though barbarous tillage, indicated a people far in advance of the famished wanderers of the Saguenay, or their less abject kindred of New England.
Crossing the Penobscot, one found a visible descent in the scale of humanity.
Here were Mohicans, Pequots, Narragansetts, Wampanoags, Massachusetts, Penacooks, thorns in the side of the Puritan.
The true Iroquois, or Five Nations, extended through Central New York, from the Hudson to the Genesee.
We have said that this group of tribes was relatively very populous; yet it is more than doubtful whether all of them united, had union been possible, could have mustered eight thousand fighting men.
From Nova Scotia to the saint Lawrence, there was no population worthy of the name.
Ascending the saint Lawrence, it was seldom that the sight of a human form gave relief to the loneliness, until, at Quebec, the roar of Champlain's cannon from the verge of the cliff announced that the savage prologue of the American drama was drawing to a close, and that the civilization of Europe was advancing on the scene.
They owed much, also, to the bounty of the sea, and hence they tended towards the coast; which, before the epidemic, Champlain and Smith had seen at many points studded with wigwams and waving with harvests of maize.
The fear of the Iroquois was everywhere; and as the voyager passed some wooded point, or thicket covered island, the whistling of a stone headed arrow proclaimed, perhaps, the presence of these fierce marauders.
In Italy white Gorgonzola is also put up in crocks with brandy.
This is also true of our native Jersey Lightning and hard cider with their accompanying New York State cheese.
While a land flowing with milk and honey is the ideal of many, France, Italy, Spain or Portugal, flowing with wine and honey, suit a lot of gourmets better.
This doctoring leads to fraudulent imitation, however, for either port or stout is put into counterfeit Cheshire cheese to make up for the richness it lacks.
Switzerland also has another cheese favorite at home-Trauben (grape cheese), named from the Neuchatel wine in which it is aged.
When something more fiery is needed we can twirl the flecks of pure gold in a chalice of Eau de Vie de Danzig and nibble on legitimate Danzig cheese unadulterated.
"Fit for Drink"
The classical Greek cheese has always been Feta, and no doubt this was the kind that Circe combined most suitably with wine to make a farewell drink for her lovers.
Red Cheshire with Light Tawny Port White Cheshire with Oloroso Sherry Blue Leicester with Old Vintage Port Green Roquefort with New Vintage Port
Pommard and Port Salut seem to be made for each other, as do Chateau Margaux and Camembert.
Another perfect combination, if you can take it, is imported kuemmel with any caraway seeded cheese, or cream cheese with a handy saucer of caraway seeds.
French la Jonchee is another potted thriller with not only coffee and rum mixed in during the making, but orange flower water, too.
Indeed, in such vinous caseous places cheese is on the house at all wine sales for prospective customers to snack upon and thus bring out the full flavor of the cellared vintages.
But professional wine tasters are forbidden any cheese between sips.
She put further sweetness and body into the stirrup cup by stirring honey and barley meal into it. Today we might whip this up in an electric mixer to toast her memory.
This is further fortified with brandy, white wine and pepper. One regional tipple with such brutally strong cheese is black coffee laced with gin.
A country without a fit drink for cheese has no cheese fit for drink.
I foamed-I raved-I swore!
The old man was dead.
I was singularly at ease.
Yes, he was stone, stone dead.
I led them, at length, to his chamber.
They heard!--they suspected!--they knew!--they were making a mockery of my horror!-this I thought, and this I think.
I placed my hand upon the heart and held it there many minutes.
He had the eye of a vulture-a pale blue eye, with a film over it.
But the beating grew louder, louder!
I heard many things in hell.
I took my visitors all over the house.
Now this is the point.
He was stone dead.
This, however, did not vex me; it would not be heard through the wall.
To think that there I was, opening the door, little by little, and he not even to dream of my secret deeds or thoughts.
I then replaced the boards so cleverly, so cunningly, that no human eye-not even his-could have detected any thing wrong.
As the bell sounded the hour, there came a knocking at the street door.
I felt that I must scream or die! and now-again!--hark! louder!
He was still sitting up in the bed listening;--just as I have done, night after night, hearkening to the death watches in the wall.
I went down to open it with a light heart,--for what had I now to fear?
But even yet I refrained and kept still.
Was it possible they heard not?
But, for many minutes, the heart beat on with a muffled sound.
Almighty God!--no, no!
It was open-wide, wide open-and I grew furious as I gazed upon it.
I admit the deed!--tear up the planks!
His fears had been ever since growing upon him.
Oh, you would have laughed to see how cunningly I thrust it in!
It was a low, dull, quick sound-much such a sound as a watch makes when enveloped in cotton.
I showed them his treasures, secure, undisturbed.
I gasped for breath-and yet the officers heard it not.
Madmen know nothing.
First of all I dismembered the corpse.
He shrieked once-once only.
I say I knew it well. I knew what the old man felt, and pitied him, although I chuckled at heart.
I kept quite still and said nothing.
The old man's hour had come!
louder!
Oh God! what could I do?
I talked more quickly-more vehemently; but the noise steadily increased.
I smiled,--for what had I to fear?
Object there was none.
Never before that night had I felt the extent of my own powers-of my sagacity.
At length it ceased.
There was no pulsation.
It increased my fury, as the beating of a drum stimulates the soldier into courage.
It grew louder, I say, louder every moment!--do you mark me well I have told you that I am nervous: so I am. And now at the dead hour of the night, amid the dreadful silence of that old house, so strange a noise as this excited me to uncontrollable terror.
They sat, and while I answered cheerily, they chatted of familiar things.
Whenever it fell upon me, my blood ran cold; and so by degrees-very gradually-I made up my mind to take the life of the old man, and thus rid myself of the eye forever.
Meantime the hellish tattoo of the heart increased.
I could scarcely contain my feelings of triumph.
If still you think me mad, you will think so no longer when I describe the wise precautions I took for the concealment of the body.
And every night, about midnight, I turned the latch of his door and opened it-oh so gently!
The ringing became more distinct:--It continued and became more distinct: I talked more freely to get rid of the feeling: but it continued and gained definiteness-until, at length, I found that the noise was not within my ears.
louder!
The disease had sharpened my senses-not destroyed-not dulled them.
The officers were satisfied.
I loved the old man.
And still the men chatted pleasantly, and smiled.
I saw it with perfect distinctness-all a dull blue, with a hideous veil over it that chilled the very marrow in my bones; but I could see nothing else of the old man's face or person: for I had directed the ray as if by instinct, precisely upon the damned spot.
louder!
So you see he would have been a very profound old man, indeed, to suspect that every night, just at twelve, I looked in upon him while he slept.
I thought the heart must burst.
Yet the sound increased-and what could I do?
I removed the bed and examined the corpse.
I had been too wary for that.
And it was the mournful influence of the unperceived shadow that caused him to feel-although he neither saw nor heard-to feel the presence of my head within the room.
The night waned, and I worked hastily, but in silence.
It grew louder-louder-louder!
There was nothing to wash out-no stain of any kind-no blood spot whatever.
For his gold I had no desire.
You fancy me mad.
I knew that sound well, too.
yes, it was this!
Passion there was none.
You should have seen how wisely I proceeded-with what caution-with what foresight-with what dissimulation I went to work!
Above all was the sense of hearing acute.
Hearken! and observe how healthily-how calmly I can tell you the whole story.
I bade the gentlemen welcome.
The old man's terror must have been extreme!
And then, when I had made an opening sufficient for my head, I put in a dark lantern, all closed, closed, that no light shone out, and then I thrust in my head.
I arose and argued about trifles, in a high key and with violent gesticulations; but the noise steadily increased.
It took me an hour to place my whole head within the opening so far that I could see him as he lay upon his bed.
But, ere long, I felt myself getting pale and wished them gone.
A shriek had been heard by a neighbour during the night; suspicion of foul play had been aroused; information had been lodged at the police office, and they (the officers) had been deputed to search the premises.
Why would they not be gone?
Upon the eighth night I was more than usually cautious in opening the door.
THE TELL TALE HEART.
Their habits of agriculture would have been developed, and their instincts of mutual slaughter repressed.
The guns and tomahawks of the Iroquois were the ruin of their hopes.
They ruined the trade which was the life blood of New France; they stopped the current of her arteries, and made all her early years a misery and a terror.
Here, then, closes this wild and bloody act of the great drama of New France; and now let the curtain fall, while we ponder its meaning.
Not that they changed her destinies. The contest on this continent between Liberty and Absolutism was never doubtful; but the triumph of the one would have been dearly bought, and the downfall of the other incomplete.
The Jesuits saw their hopes struck down; and their faith, though not shaken, was sorely tried.
Meanwhile let those who have prevailed yield due honor to the defeated.
But now new scenes succeed, and other actors enter on the stage, a hardy and valiant band, moulded to endure and dare,--the Discoverers of the Great West.
Could they have curbed or converted those ferocious bands, it is little less than certain that their dream would have become a reality.
Liberty may thank the Iroquois, that, by their insensate fury, the plans of her adversary were brought to nought, and a peril and a woe averted from her future.
Unmolested by Indian enemies, and fed by a rich commerce, she would have put forth a vigorous growth.
The Providence of God seemed in their eyes dark and inexplicable; but, from the stand point of Liberty, that Providence is clear as the sun at noon.
In a measure, the occupation of the Jesuits was gone.
Up he scrambled, and away he went as fast as his legs could carry him.
The garden and the torrent and all were gone, and nothing was left but a naked plain covered over with the bones of those who had come that way before, seeking the fruit which the travelling servant had sought.
The robbers are all dead and gone now, and I use the treasure that they left behind to entertain poor travellers like yourself.
Up stepped the servant's comrade and knocked upon the door-rap!
By and by in came the gang of thieves with a great noise and uproar, and down they sat to their supper.
So the two did without second bidding, and such food and drink the serving man had never tasted in his life before.
He played and he played, and, after a while, one after another of those who listened to him began to get drowsy.
He knocked at the door, and the wise man who had been his master opened to him.
The servant, who had travelled so long and so far, could see it plainly from where he stood, and he did not need to be told that it was the fruit of happiness.
This time the travelling comrade did neither good nor ill to those of the house, but in the morning he told the widow whither they were going, and asked if she and her son knew the way to the garden where grew the fruit of happiness.
"Why, thus," said the second.
"Whither away, comrade," asked the traveller.
"So it was, and that is how I came to be rich now," said the one-time poor man.
Then the poor travelling servant began to thump his head.
So all the rest of that day they journeyed onward together, until, towards evening, they came to a town with high towers and steep roofs and tall spires.
But the next morning, before the dawning of the day, the travelling companion was stirring again.
By and by it was opened a crack, and there stood an ugly old woman, blear eyed and crooked and gnarled as a winter twig. But the heart within her was good for all that.
The servant stood and stared like one bereft of wits.
If he would ask it of him, that man would lead him to the garden where the fruit of happiness grows."
And in he went, as he said, with the servant at his heels trembling like a leaf at what he had heard.
Then-
"Can you play good music, piper?" said he.
In the house lived a poor man and his wife; and, though the two were as honest as the palm of your hand, and as good and kind as rain in spring time, they could hardly scrape enough of a living to keep body and soul together.
"No offence," said the Blacksmith; "I meant not to speak ill of your story.
And in the middle of it grew a golden tree, and on it golden fruit.
For he is not the only one in the world who has come in sight of the fruit of happiness, and then jogged all the way back home again to cook cabbage and onions and pot herbs, and to make broth for wiser men than himself to sup.
As he spoke he drew from his pocket the ruby ring which he had stolen from the sorrowful young man's finger, and dropped it into the cup from which the robber captain drank.
"Yes," said the travelling companion, "I would, for that is why I came hither."
Not a Pin to Choose.
"I want to take service with you again," said the travelling servant.
Thereupon, as he ended speaking, he struck his staff upon the ground. Instantly the earth trembled, and the sky darkened overhead until it grew as black as night.
But suddenly everything went wrong; his wife and he fell out and quarrelled until there was no living together, and she had to go back to her old home.
"What use?
There they began talking to one another, and the servant popped the pebble into his mouth to hear what they might say.
On and on he travelled, until he came to the cross roads and the stone cross of which the raven spoke, and there, sure enough, sat the traveller.
Come, come, sir, will you not take a pot of ale with me?"
"Yonder is a traveller in the world," said the first raven.
Well, he played and played until, by and by, the door opened, and out came a serving man.
Come, friend, let us have it."
Once upon a time there was a servant who served a wise man, and cooked for him his cabbage and his onions and his pot herbs and his broth, day after day, time in and time out, for seven years.
"That is good," said the servant's comrade, "and if he will do so I will pay him well for his trouble."
There he beheld masons and carpenters hard at work hacking and hewing, and building a fine new house.
That is the end of this story.
"I like your story, holy sir," said the Blacksmith who made Death sit in a pear tree.
In those years the servant was well enough contented, but no one likes to abide in the same place forever, and so one day he took it into his head that he would like to go out into the world to see what kind of a fortune a man might make there for himself.
"There!" cried the comrade, "that is your reward for your service!"
He was clad in a weather stained coat, and he wore dusty boots, and the servant bade him good morning.
"It is," said Ali Baba, "about two men betwixt whom there was-"
"Stop a bit," said Fortunatus; "what is this story mostly about?"
There happened to be one of the household standing at the door, and he knew the servant as the companion of that one who had stolen the ruby ring. Up he came and laid hold of the servant by the collar, calling to his companions that he had caught one of the thieves.
Rap! tap! tap!
But before I blow my pipe I and my friend here must have something to eat and drink, for one cannot play well with an empty stomach."
So the young man put on his hat, and took up his stick, and off went the three, up hill and down dale, until by and by they came over the top of the last hill, and there below them lay the garden.
Do you agree to that?"
Then the flaming fire flew away to heaven again, carrying him along with it.
There, lo and behold! Instead of being dark and silent, as it was before, all was ablaze with light and noisy with the sound of rejoicing and merriment.
"So be it," said the young man; "sit down with me and eat and drink."
And strange work it was!
And all the while the serving man stood gaping like a fish to see what his comrade was about.
tap!
After that the sky cleared once more, and, lo and behold!
In this cottage lived a widow and her only son, and they also made the travellers welcome, and set before them a good supper and showed them to a clean bed.
tap!
The other day there came an angel hither, and with him he brought the ring of discord that breeds spite and rage and quarrelling.
He gave it to the captain of the band, and after he had gone the robbers fought for it with one another until they were all killed.
First they winked, then they shut their eyes, and then they nodded until all were as dumb as logs, and as sound asleep as though they would never waken again.
But the next day they jogged on together again until by and by they came to a great forest.
By and by he came to a cross road, and who should he see sitting there but Ill Luck himself.
"Listen," says Ill Luck.
He opened the trap door, and went down the steep steps to the room below.
Then he began twisting and turning it in his fingers, looking first on one side and then on the other, and all the while Ill Luck kept crying, "Let me out! let me out!"
I see how it is now.
Then what do you think saint Nicholas did?
He stood looking and wondering to find himself in such a place, when all of a sudden something came with a whiz and a rush and caught him by the belt, and away he flew like a bullet.
At last he could stand it no longer.
The little old man sat alone, but another place was spread, as though he were expecting some one.
Swash!
It was Ill Luck that brought me."
Then he passed through one room after another, and each was finer than the one he left behind. Many servants stood around; but they only bowed, and never asked whence he came.
But she was a prize, for not only was the kingdom hers, but she was as young as a spring apple and as pretty as a picture; so that there was no end of those who would have liked to have had her, each man for his own.
"Ah, yes," says Ill Luck, "I find plenty to do in this world of woe."
Before him was a great long passageway, and at the far end of it he could see a spark of light as though the sun were shining there.
So at last the old man said that he would show him the treasure house where all his wealth came from, and at that the Fiddler was tickled beyond measure.
"Nay," said the queen, "do not say so.
He lifted the door, and then went down a steep flight of stone steps, and the Fiddler followed close at his heels.
By and by he heard a little shrill voice piping and crying, "Let me out! let me out! let me out!"
First he wondered; then he began to grow curious; then he began to itch and tingle and burn as though fifty thousand I want to know nettles were sticking into him from top to toe.
But by and by he began to wonder where all the good things came from. Then, before long, he fell to pestering the old man with questions about the matter.
Down fell the Fiddler into the apple tree and down fell a dozen apples, popping and tumbling about the queen's ears.
"Let you out?" says the Fiddler.
It was left to me as I will leave it to you, and in the meantime you may come and go as you choose and fill your pockets whenever you wish to.
Now, saint Nicholas had a pocketful of hazel nuts, which he kept cracking and eating as he trudged along the road, and just then he came upon one with a worm hole in it.
"It hath no name," said dr Faustus.
Since I have come so far, I may as well see the end of it." So he entered the passageway, and closed the door behind him.
Well, three or four days passed, and all was as sweet and happy as a spring day.
But before he had gone six steps he stopped.
You can guess whether or not that was music to the Fiddler's ears.
It was the garden of a royal castle, and all had been weeping and woe (though they were beginning now to pick up their smiles again), and this was the reason why:
"Yes," said the Fiddler, "I have.
But there is one thing you must not do: you must never open that door yonder at the back of the room.
After he had done that, he began to wonder what was inside of the little door at the back of the room.
Down below it was as light as day, for in the centre of the room hung a great lamp that shone with a bright light and lit up all the place as bright as day.
Plague take the Fiddler! say i
So he stuffed his pockets full, and then he followed the old man up the steps and out into the sunlight again.
The Fiddler had his own mind about that; but, all the same, down he sat at the table, and fell to with knife and fork at the good things, as though he had not had a bite to eat for a week of Sundays.
"Good morning, Ill Luck," says he.
The table was spread with a feast that smelled so good that it brought tears to the Fiddler's eyes and water to his mouth, and all the plates were of pure gold.
"I thought so," said the Fiddler; and then he gave over kicking.
"Just to think!" said he, "I would either have been the richest man in the world, or else I would have been a king, if it had not been for Ill Luck."
Then away he flew to attend to other matters of greater need.
It took him maybe an hour to count all the money and jewels he had brought up with him.
By and by he managed to screw his head around and look up, and there it was Ill Luck that had him.
By and by he came to a garden, and there he let the Fiddler drop on the soft grass below.
The day was warm, and he was tired; so down he sat under the shade of the oak tree to rest his legs.
In the floor were set three great basins of marble: one was nearly full of silver, one of gold, and one of gems of all sorts.
Oh no!
"You look as hale and strong as ever," says saint Nicholas.
"Here I am," says Ill Luck-"here in this hazel nut, under the roots of the oak tree."
"Where did you come from?" said she.
He picked it up and ran his fingers over the strings-trum, twang! Then he got to his feet and brushed the dirt and grass from his knees. He tucked his fiddle under his arm, and off he stepped upon the way he had been going at first.
As for the gold and silver and jewels-why, they were as plentiful in that house as dust in a mill!
You fell from heaven, for I saw it with my eyes and heard it with my ears.
Suddenly Ill Luck let him drop, and down he fell-thump! bump!--on the hard ground.
When he saw Ill Luck it came into his head to do a good turn to poor sorrowful man.
"So!" says saint Nicholas, "that's a piece of work well done." Then he tossed the hazel nut under the roots of an oak tree near by, and went his way.
On he stepped along the road to the town where he used to live, for he had a notion to find out whether things were going on nowadays as they one time did.
Away flew the Fiddler like a bullet, and there was Ill Luck carrying him by the belt again.
"All this is mine," said the old man, "and after I am gone it shall be yours.
"Well," says he, "this is the most curious thing I have seen for a long time.
Should you do so, Ill Luck will be sure to overtake you."
And this morning I said to myself that the first body that came to my house I would take for a son-or a daughter, as the case might be.
The Fiddler would never think of doing such a thing as opening the door.
"I am glad to hear it," says the Fiddler.
"They tell me," says saint Nicholas, "that you can go wherever you choose, even if it be through a key hole; now, is that so?"
Let me out! let me out!"
But since the old man had given him leave, he would just help himself to a few of the fine things.
"Who are you?" says he.
"What is behind that door?" said he.
"Ah! that," said the queen, "you must not ask or wish to know.
You were sent hither from heaven to be my husband, and my husband you shall be. You shall be king of this country, half and half with me as queen, and shall sit on a throne beside me."
"Not I; if you are bottled up here it is the better for all of us;" and, so saying, he tucked his fiddle under his arm and off he marched.
Well, since I have come so far, it would be a pity to turn back without seeing more." So he opened the door and peeped in.
There lay his fiddle, just as he had left it.
"Oh, Ill Luck brought me," said the Fiddler.
Well; on and on they flew, over hill and valley, over moor and mountain, until they came to another garden, and there Ill Luck let the Fiddler drop.
You are the first, and so you shall live with me as long as I live, and after I am gone everything that I have shall be yours."
As the Fiddler came in the little old man nodded and smiled.
The Fiddler looked up and down, but he could see nobody.
He went on and on, and the spark of light kept growing larger and larger, and by and by-pop! out he came at the other end of the passage.
The king of that country had died, and no one was left behind him but the queen.
The old man fitted the key to the lock and turned it.
Sure enough, there he stood on the sea shore, with the waves beating and dashing on the rocks.
Swash!
So the princes were sent packing, and the Fiddler was married to the queen, and reigned in that country.
Even that day there were three princes at the castle, each one wanting the queen to marry him; and the wrangling and bickering and squabbling that was going on was enough to deafen a body.
there he was, under the oak tree whence he had started in the first place.
"It hath no name," said dr Faustus.
And that is how this story begins.
"I am Ill Luck!
But at the end of that time the Fiddler began to wonder what was to be seen in the castle.
"I should like to see you," says saint Nicholas; "for then I should be of a mind to believe what people say of you."
So down he took the key, and off he marched to the garden.
"Good morning, saint Nicholas," says Ill Luck.
"I'll just go down yonder," says he, "and peep through the key hole; perhaps I can see what is there without opening the door."
The queen looked up and screamed, and the Fiddler climbed down.
He listened, and after a while he heard a sound like the waves beating on the shore.
There was the door at the end of the room, but when he came to look there was no key hole to it.
It was not long before the Fiddler found the little wooden plug, and then nothing would do but he must take a peep inside the nut to see if Ill Luck was really there.
"Yes," says Ill Luck, "it is."
At first the old man put him off with short answers, but the Fiddler was a master hand at finding out anything he wanted to know.
Once upon a time saint Nicholas came down into the world to take a peep at the old place and see how things looked in the spring time.
"Pooh!" said the Fiddler, "There's nothing there, after all," and he opened the door wide.
Everything the Fiddler wanted came to his hand. He lived high, and slept soft and warm, and never knew what it was to want either more or less, or great or small.
Should you open that door Ill Luck will be sure to overtake you."
Sit down to the table and eat; and when I have told you all, you will say it was not Ill Luck, but Good Luck, that brought you."
The queen was very fond of him, and was glad enough to show him all the fine things that were to be seen; so hand in hand they went everywhere, from garret to cellar.
"Yes," says Ill Luck, "I could indeed."
Yes, that was a very fine thing to say; but before an hour had gone by the Fiddler's head began to hum and buzz like a beehive.
He entered the door, and nobody said no to him.
He dinned and drummed and worried until flesh and blood could stand it no longer.
And that is the way we all of us talk.
"Nay," said dr Faustus, "the story is not altogether of the man himself, but rather of a pupil who came to learn wisdom of him."
Well, the Fiddler smoothed down his hair and brushed his clothes a bit, and off he went to see what was to be seen at the grand house at the end of the garden.
"Welcome!" he cried; "and have you come at last?"
Persia, with its cloth of gold, marble halls, and infinite wealth, is now a tomb.
His measures were thwarted, and his schemes interrupted by this new state of things. Many of the foreigners were utterly destitute; and their increasing numbers at length forbade a recourse to the usual modes of relief.
We feared the coming summer.
When foreign distresses came to be felt by us through the channels of commerce, we set ourselves to apply remedies.
The wind, prince of air, raged through his kingdom, lashing the sea into fury, and subduing the rebel earth into some sort of obedience.
He came to Windsor to consult with us.
But in this mortal life extremes are always matched; the thorn grows with the rose, the poison tree and the cinnamon mingle their boughs.
CHAPTER five
Our vessels truly were the sport of winds and waves, even as Gulliver was the toy of the Brobdignagians; but we on our stable abode could not be hurt in life or limb by these eruptions of nature.
Its obscurity of situation rendered it the more conspicuous: the diminutive letters grew gigantic to the bewildered eye of fear: they seemed graven with a pen of iron, impressed by fire, woven in the clouds, stamped on the very front of the universe.
Their deadly power shook the flourishing countries of the south, and during winter, even, we, in our northern retreat, began to quake under their ill effects.
Our own distresses, though they were occasioned by the fictitious reciprocity of commerce, encreased in due proportion.
But that country had so many resources in the way of agriculture, that the rush of population from one part of it to another, and its increase through foreign emigration, was less felt than with us.
In vain our Protector and his partizans sought to conceal this truth; in vain, day after day, he appointed a period for the discussion of the new laws concerning hereditary rank and privilege; in vain he endeavoured to represent the evil as partial and temporary.
These disasters came home to so many bosoms, and, through the various channels of commerce, were carried so entirely into every class and division of the community, that of necessity they became the first question in the state, the chief subjects to which we must turn our attention.
Our minds embrace infinity; the visible mechanism of our being is subject to merest accident.
He had sought this office with eagerness, under the idea of turning his whole forces to the suppression of the privileged orders of our community.
These speculations were rife among us; yet not the less we proceeded in our daily occupations, and our plans, whose accomplishment demanded the lapse of many years.
At the commencement of summer, we began to feel, that the mischief which had taken place in distant countries was greater than we had at first suspected.
Could we domesticate a cub of this wild beast, and not fear its growth and maturity?
If infection depended upon the air, the air was subject to infection.
He must aim no more at the dear object of his ambition; throwing his arms aside, he must for present ends give up the ultimate object of his endeavours.
Many of our visitors left us: those whose homes were far in the south, fled delightedly from our northern winter, and sought their native land, secure of plenty even after their fearful visitation.
Many of these, of high rank in their own countries, now, with hoe in hand, turned up the soil.
Could we take integral parts of this power, and not be subject to its operation?
Chairs, as in olden time, and Indian palanquins were introduced for the infirm; but else it was nothing singular to see females of rank going on foot to places of fashionable resort.
But how are we to judge of airs, and pronounce-in such a city plague will die unproductive; in such another, nature has provided for it a plentiful harvest?
Where late the busy multitudes assembled for pleasure or profit, now only the sound of wailing and misery is heard.
The English spirit awoke to its full activity, and, as it had ever done, set itself to resist the evil, and to stand in the breach which diseased nature had suffered chaos and death to make in the bounds and banks which had hitherto kept them out.
It drinks the dark blood of the inhabitant of the south, but it never feasts on the pale faced Celt.
What the coming summer would bring, we knew not; but the present months were our own, and our hopes of a cessation of pestilence were high.
O, yes, it would-Countrymen, fear not!
A little population occupied its halls.
Yet a feeling of awe, a breathless sentiment of wonder, a painful sense of the degradation of humanity, was introduced into every heart.
The evil was so wide spreading, so violent and immedicable, that no care, no prevention could be judged superfluous, which even added a chance to our escape.
It was August; so there could be small hope of relief during the heats.
It was called an epidemic. But the grand question was still unsettled of how this epidemic was generated and increased.
What are we, the inhabitants of this globe, least among the many that people infinite space?
The God sends down his angry plagues from high, Famine and pestilence in heaps they die. Again in vengeance of his wrath he falls On their great hosts, and breaks their tottering walls; Arrests their navies on the ocean's plain, And whelms their strength with mountains of the main.
They insinuated themselves into the substances about them, and the impediments to their progress yielded at their touch.
It seems as if the giant waves of ocean, and vast arms of the sea, were about to wrench the deep rooted island from its centre; and cast it, a ruin and a wreck, upon the fields of the Atlantic.
As at the conclusion of the eighteenth century, the English unlocked their hospitable store, for the relief of those driven from their homes by political revolution; so now they were not backward in affording aid to the victims of a more wide spreading calamity.
Alas, what will become of us?
These were questions of prudence; there was no immediate necessity for an earnest caution.
France, Germany, Italy and Spain, were interposed, walls yet without a breach, between us and the plague.
These tidings were at first whispered about town; but no one dared express aloud the soul quailing intelligence.
The most luxurious were often the first to part with their indulgencies.
As for instance, a typhus fever has been brought by ships to one sea port town; yet the very people who brought it there, were incapable of communicating it in a town more fortunately situated.
Our little island was filled even to bursting.
The blow was struck; the aristocracy obtained all they wished, and they subscribed to a twelvemonths' bill, which levied twenty per cent on all the rent rolls of the country.
Trade was stopped by the failure of the interchange of cargoes usual between us, and America, India, Egypt and Greece.
To give up their pleasure grounds to the agriculturist, to diminish sensibly the number of horses kept for the purposes of luxury throughout the country, were means obvious, but unpleasing.
These reflections made our legislators pause, before they could decide on the laws to be put in force.
Thousands died unlamented; for beside the yet warm corpse the mourner was stretched, made mute by death.
The English, whether travellers or residents, came pouring in one great revulsive stream, back on their own country; and with them crowds of Italians and Spaniards.
The revenue of its possessor, which had always found a mode of expenditure congenial to his generous nature, was now attended to more parsimoniously, that it might embrace a wider portion of utility.
He addressed himself to the wealthy of the land; he made proposals in parliament little adapted to please the rich; but his earnest pleadings and benevolent eloquence were irresistible.
The air is empoisoned, and each human being inhales death, even while in youth and health, their hopes are in the flower.
The clouds become thin; an arch is formed for ever rising upwards, till, the universal cope being unveiled, the sun pours forth its rays, re animated and fed by the breeze.
He whom a scratch has disorganized, he who disappears from apparent life under the influence of the hostile agency at work around us, had the same powers as I-I also am subject to the same laws.
Nations, bordering on the already infected countries, began to enter upon serious plans for the better keeping out of the enemy.
It was impossible to see these crowds of wretched, perishing creatures, late nurslings of luxury, and not stretch out a hand to save them.
Experience demonstrated that in a year or two pestilence would cease; it were well that in the mean time we should not have destroyed our fine breeds of horses, or have utterly changed the face of the ornamented portion of the country.
At first an unusual quantity of specie made its appearance with the emigrants; but these people had no means of receiving back into their hands what they spent among us.
Every day added to his difficulties; the arrival of fresh vessels with emigrants, the total cessation of commerce, the starving multitude that thronged around the palace of the Protectorate, were circumstances not to be tampered with.
Such things, when they happen singly, affect only the immediate parties; but the prosperity of the nation was now shaken by frequent and extensive losses.
We had many foreign friends whom we eagerly sought out, and relieved from dreadful penury.
England was still secure.
Mexico laid waste by the united effects of storm, pestilence and famine.
Nature, our mother, and our friend, had turned on us a brow of menace.
SOME disorder had surely crept into the course of the elements, destroying their benignant influence.
No voice was heard telling us to hold!
That the plague was not what is commonly called contagious, like the scarlet fever, or extinct small pox, was proved.
That fable is unjust, which gives the superiority to the sun over the wind. Who has not seen the lightsome earth, the balmy atmosphere, and basking nature become dark, cold and ungenial, when the sleeping wind has awoke in the east?
On the contrary, the disease gained virulence, while starvation did its accustomed work.
As yet western Europe was uninfected; would it always be so?
Subscriptions were made for the emigrants, and merchants bankrupt by the failure of trade.
Thus we began to feel, with regard to many visaged death let loose on the chosen districts of our fair habitation, and above all, with regard to the plague.
Day by day we are forced to believe this.
Calm was now restored to the metropolis, and to the populous cities, before driven to desperation; and we returned to the consideration of distant calamities, wondering if the future would bring any alleviation to their excess.
We called to mind the plague of thirteen forty eight, when it was calculated that a third of mankind had been destroyed.
The infection had now spread in the southern provinces of France.
The tent of the Arab is fallen in the sands, and his horse spurns the ground unbridled and unsaddled.
Bankers, merchants, and manufacturers, whose trade depended on exports and interchange of wealth, became bankrupt.
"Couldn't one get a book?" he asked.
But besides this there was something else of importance.
A healthy man can tear himself away from the deepest reflections to say a civil word to someone who comes in and can then return again to his own thoughts.
That is why I experienced such joy when I felt that I loved that man.
And of them all, I loved and hated none as I did her." And he vividly pictured to himself Natasha, not as he had done in the past with nothing but her charms which gave him delight, but for the first time picturing to himself her soul.
Only in the lower part of it something quivered.
"Mine, sir?
A cricket chirped from across the passage; someone was shouting and singing in the street; cockroaches rustled on the table, on the icons, and on the walls, and a big fly flopped at the head of the bed and around the candle beside him, the wick of which was charred and had shaped itself like a mushroom.
It was something white by the door-the statue of a sphinx, which also oppressed him.
And those thoughts, though now vague and indefinite, again possessed his soul.
But on the seventh day he ate with pleasure a piece of bread with some tea, and the doctor noticed that his temperature was lower.
To love one's neighbors, to love one's enemies, to love everything, to love God in all His manifestations.
At the same time he felt that above his face, above the very middle of it, some strange airy structure was being erected out of slender needles or splinters, to the sound of this whispered music.
The first night after they left Moscow had been fairly warm and he had remained in the caleche, but at Mytishchi the wounded man himself asked to be taken out and given some tea.
Every man can understand it, but to conceive it and enjoin it was possible only for God.
They gave Prince Andrew some tea.
Prince Andrew wished to return to that former world of pure thought, but he could not, and delirium drew him back into its domain.
"Please go away, madam!"
When he had been placed on his camp bed he lay for a long time motionless with closed eyes.
He realized that it was the real living Natasha, and he was not surprised but quietly happy.
No, neither death nor anything else can destroy it.
Those eyes, filled with happy tears, gazed at him timidly, compassionately, and with joyous love.
"You?" he said.
Her face was pale and rigid.
Yet how many people have I hated in my life?
"What's this?" said the doctor, rising from his bed.
Timokhin, who had not slept at all because of the pain in his leg, had long been watching all that was going on, carefully covering his bare body with the sheet as he huddled up on his bench.
While listening to this whispering and feeling the sensation of this drawing out and the construction of this edifice of needles, he also saw by glimpses a red halo round the candle, and heard the rustle of the cockroaches and the buzzing of the fly that flopped against his pillow and his face.
Each time the fly touched his face it gave him a burning sensation and yet to his surprise it did not destroy the structure, though it knocked against the very region of his face where it was rising.
That's enough, please leave off!" Prince Andrew painfully entreated someone.
He remembered that he had now a new source of happiness and that this happiness had something to do with the Gospels.
He felt Prince Andrew's pulse, and to his surprise and dissatisfaction found it had improved.
"Yes-love," he thought again quite clearly.
Natasha's thin pale face, with its swollen lips, was more than plain-it was dreadful.
When he came to himself, Natasha, that same living Natasha whom of all people he most longed to love with this new pure divine love that had been revealed to him, was kneeling before him.
"Forgive me!"
Prince Andrew collected all his strength in an effort to recover his senses, he moved a little, and suddenly there was a ringing in his ears, a dimness in his eyes, and like a man plunged into water he lost consciousness.
Now again I feel that bliss.
At times his brain suddenly began to work with a vigor, clearness, and depth it had never reached when he was in health, but suddenly in the midst of its work it would turn to some unexpected idea and he had not the strength to turn it back again.
"Oh, how oppressive this continual delirium is," thought Prince Andrew, trying to drive that face from his imagination.
He felt that he had to balance carefully (though it was difficult) so that this airy structure should not collapse; but nevertheless it kept collapsing and again slowly rising to the sound of whispered rhythmic music-"it stretches, stretches, spreading out and stretching," said Prince Andrew to himself.
At that moment a maid sent by the countess, who had noticed her daughter's absence, knocked at the door.
All the powers of his mind were more active and clearer than ever, but they acted apart from his will.
"But not love which loves for something, for some quality, for some purpose, or for some reason, but the love which I-while dying-first experienced when I saw my enemy and yet loved him.
Madame Schoss and the two girls were to sleep on some hay on the floor.
"You are cold.
"But you didn't see it!"
Her head moved from side to side from habit, but her eyes, feverishly wide, looked fixedly before her.
"Oh, how terrible," said Sonya returning from the yard chilled and frightened.
And as if in order not to offend Sonya and to get rid of her, she turned her face to the window, looked out in such a way that it was evident that she could not see anything, and again settled down in her former attitude.
"Look, Natasha, how dreadfully it is burning!" said she.
The count returned and lay down behind the partition.
The cold she felt refreshed her.
"I believe the whole of Moscow will burn, there's an awful glow!
"Natasha, undress, darling; lie down on my bed."
It was dark in there.
She put her head out into the damp night air, and the countess saw her slim neck shaking with sobs and throbbing against the window frame.
For a long time Natasha listened attentively to the sounds that reached her from inside and outside the room and did not move.
The valet sat up and whispered something.
As if to celebrate a victory over everybody, a cricket chirped in a crack in the wall.
"Lie down?
The countess exchanged a look with Sonya.
"Come, lie down."
"No, Mamma, I will lie down here on the floor," Natasha replied irritably and she went to the window and opened it.
Yes, he was altogether like that.
A bed had been made on a bedstead for the countess only.
"Lie down, darling; lie down, my pet," said the countess, softly touching Natasha's shoulders.
The small lamp in front of the icons was the only light left in the room.
All the way she had sat motionless in a corner of the coach with wide open eyes, and the expression in them which the countess knew so well and feared so much, and now she sat in the same way on the bench where she had seated herself on arriving.
When she had thrown off her dress and put on a dressing jacket, she sat down with her foot under her on the bed that had been made up on the floor, jerked her thin and rather short plait of hair to the front, and began replaiting it.
She knew Prince Andrew was in the same yard as themselves and in a part of the hut across the passage; but this dreadful incessant moaning made her sob.
Both the countess and Sonya understood that, naturally, neither Moscow nor the burning of Moscow nor anything else could seem of importance to Natasha.
Natasha, do look!
But after she had been told that she could not see him, that he was seriously wounded but that his life was not in danger, she ceased to ask questions or to speak at all, evidently disbelieving what they told her, and convinced that say what she might she would still be told the same.
"Do lie down," she added crossly, and buried her face in the pillow.
Her long, thin, practiced fingers rapidly unplaited, replaited, and tied up her plait.
After a short silence the countess spoke again but this time no one replied.
The countess, Madame Schoss, and Sonya undressed hastily and lay down.
"Yes, really I did," Natasha replied in a voice that pleaded to be left in peace.
The boards of the floor creaked.
You'd better lie down," said the countess.
"Natasha, you'd better lie in the middle," said Sonya.
The valet, returning to the cottage, informed the count that Moscow was burning.
She was planning something and either deciding or had already decided something in her mind.
Montgomery obeyed.
"Yes, mr Montgomery?"
Montgomery gladly made it up and handed it to the miner.
"By George, sir, if you pull it off, you've got the constituency in your pocket, if you care to stand.
The two combined were irresistible.
For six days in the week they spouted smoke, but to day the furnace fires were banked, for it was Sunday.
But then there came a sudden revulsion.
"A hundred and seventy five."
"That's easy done, mr Montgomery," said the fat voiced publican. "But before sayin' anything we had to wait and see whether, in a way of speakin', there was any need for us to say anything at all.
"I shouldn't advise you to fasten a quarrel upon me." Montgomery was speaking in the hard, staccato voice of a man who is holding himself in with difficulty.
"I ain't one to go back, Fawcett."
"Won't you stay awhile and rest?"
Montgomery looked at them in bewilderment.
"But why?"
There he lay with his bandy legs drawn up and his hands thrown abroad, the blood trickling over the surgery tiles.
I don't allow folk in the surgery.
"For goodness' sake, gentlemen, tell me what it is you want me to do!" he cried.
"Good lad!
The three sprang from their seats.
But this was something different.
If you can lick Ted Barton you may lick the Master of Croxley, but if you don't we're done, for there's no one else who is in the same street with him in this district.
"I am always in training."
Or, if you like, I will work it off after I am qualified."
"Well, the Master doesn't scale much more than that."
"You can drop out if you like, Fawcett, but I'll see this thing through, if I have to do it alone.
Give me nerve and fire and breed. That's what wins."
He is Barton-the famous Ted Barton."
"Your request is unreasonable, mr Montgomery.
"So you have told me."
His eyes were raised again, and sparkled indignantly.
It's off.
"Naturally."
The publican and horse breaker felt it with an air of reverence.
He'll do yet!" cried Purvis.
I am grieved and disappointed, mr Montgomery, that you should have put me into the painful position of having to refuse you." He turned upon his heel, and walked with offended dignity out of the surgery.
I have listened to all that you have to say about my personal appearance, and now I must really beg that you will have the goodness to tell me what is the matter."
Wait outside in the waiting room if you wish to wait at all."
mr Wilson thinks there is.
"Feel that!" said he.
Montgomery looked up, for the voice was a loud and rasping one.
He only excelled in his strength, and where was he to find a customer for that?
I turned it into a gymnasium for Ted Barton.
"Which I do."
Well, then, we will make up the hundred for the stake among us, and the fight stands-always supposin' the young man is willin'."
With tense nerves and a rigid face he went to meet his visitors.
I don't hedge a penny.
He was the champion of the Wilson coal pits, and the other was the Master of the iron folk down at the Croxley smelters.
Work the grease out of him and I lay there's no great difference between them.
The miner's head had come with a crash against the corner of the surgery shelves, and he had dropped heavily on to the ground.
"I am just eleven stone," said he.
His brains were fairly good, but brains of that quality were a drug in the market.
His appearance and words were always vaguely benevolent.
"Well, I'll stan' to my share of the purse."
The provocation was so gross, the insult so unprovoked, that he could have none of those qualms which take the edge off a man's mettle.
"Thou hit me hard!
I am surprised that you should have made it.
"I'm sure, sir, you may well be proud to have outed him in one round," said the publican.
You see, you are responsible for our having lost our champion, so we really feel that we have a claim upon you."
"I never heard of Ted Barton, beyond seeing the name on a medicine label," said the assistant.
The adventure and the profit would either of them have attracted Montgomery.
"How can I fight for the coal pits?" said he.
"We've begun at the wrong end, I know, but we'll soon straighten it out, and I hope that you will see your way to falling in with our views.
Luck was with the assistant.
"I said that he was a welter weight."
The young Cantab put his fingers on the assistant's upper arm, then with his other hand on his wrist, he bent the forearm sharply, and felt the biceps, as round and hard as a cricket ball, spring up under his fingers.
"You'll save trouble if you'll go quietly.
The assistant, looking after him, saw him rolling, with an uncertain step, down the street, until a friend met him, and they walked on arm in arm.
"Lumpiness isn't always strength.
There was no reason why the doctor should know anything about it.
"The fees, dr Oldacre, would amount to about sixty pounds."
Consider, sir, how many thousands of medical students there are in this country.
So did the third visitor, Fawcett, the horse breaker, who leaned back, his long, thin legs, with their boxcloth riding gaiters, thrust out in front of him, tapping his protruding teeth with his riding whip, with anxious thought in every line of his rugged, bony face.
"He's ten good pund on the light side," growled the horse breaker.
The winter session was approaching.
It was poor and unworthy work-work which any weakling might have done as well, and this was a man of exceptional nerve and sinew.
He would learn all about it, no doubt, if he were patient.
I like the cut of him a great deal better than I liked Ted Barton."
The student smiled bitterly, and turned to his work of making up the morning prescriptions.
"Barton.
"Had enough?" asked the assistant, breathing fiercely through his nose.
"Why, it took Morris, the ten stone six champion, a deal more trouble than that before he put Barton to sleep.
But perhaps he could escape exposure after all.
I am afraid the doctor would never consent to my going-in fact, I am sure that he would not."
"Next the road?"
Am I to provide for them all? Or why should I make an exception in your favour?
"Well, gentlemen?" he observed, but no answer came.
But the ways of Fate are strange, and his customer was at hand.
"Gentlemen," said Montgomery, "I think that you will acknowledge that I have boon very patient with you.
He had stood in the midst of them like a horse at a fair, and he was just beginning to wonder whether he was more angry or amused.
He was a coarse, clean shaven man, whose fiery face made a singular contrast with his ivory white bald head.
"Eh, lad, but thou art!" cried old Purvis.
A young man stood at the entrance- a stocky, bull necked young miner, in tweed Sunday clothes and an aggressive neck tie.
He finished sealing the bottle upon which he was occupied, and he addressed it and placed it carefully in the rack. "Look here!" said he, turning round to the miner, "your medicine will be made up in its turn and sent down to you.
But no answer came.
A sudden impulse came over the despondent student.
"It is very important to me, sir."
Publican, exquisite, and horse breaker were all three equally silent, equally earnest, and equally critical.
"Stand oop, lad; let's see thee standin'." It was the publican who spoke.
"no
And then the danger of his position came upon Montgomery, and he turned as white as his antagonist. A Sunday, the immaculate dr Oldacre with his pious connection, a savage brawl with a patient; he would irretrievably lose his situation if the facts came out.
Montgomery seated in the midst of them, looked from one to the other.
The second was Purvis, the publican, owner of the chief beer shop, and well known as the local bookmaker.
"Good lad! good lad!" croaked the publican.
He stood up and turned slowly round, as if in front of his tailor.
But a chill of doubt came over him.
That single whizzing uppercut, and the way in which it was delivered, warned him that he had a formidable man to deal with.
"That was when he was hog fat and living high.
"No," said the horse breaker, at last.
They were a very singular trio.
It was insolence-brutal, overbearing insolence, with physical menace behind it.
It is very unexpected.
Take it, then!"
"Exactly.
There was nothing in the surroundings to cheer a desponding soul, but it was more than his dismal environment which weighed upon the medical assistant.
The doctor's appearance was not encouraging.
Yet all day he was aware of a sense of vague uneasiness, which sharpened into dismay when, late in the afternoon, he was informed that three gentlemen had called and were waiting for him in the surgery. A coroner's inquest, a descent of detectives, an invasion of angry relatives-all sorts of possibilities rose to scare him.
Barton bears you no grudge. He's a good hearted fellow, though cross grained with strangers.
He looked upon you as a stranger this morning, but he says he knows you now.
"Because Ted Barton was to have fought him next Saturday.
dr Oldacre would not advance them.
Montgomery smiled.
"I am afraid that my duties call me elsewhere, mr Montgomery."
In the first place, you remember the man whom you knocked out this morning?
If you don't you'll be hurt.
"Look at Barton's shoulders, mr Wilson."
"It's off!
He had prospered exceedingly by the support of the local Church interest, and the rule of his life was never by word or action to run a risk of offending the sentiment which had made him. His standard of respectability and of dignity was exceedingly high, and he expected the same from his assistants.
"It would be a very sporting thing of you, mr Montgomery, if you would come to our help when we are in such a hole.
It's off!" cried the horse breaker.
He wiped the blood from the floor, put the surgery in order, and went on with his interrupted task, hoping that he had come scathless out of a very dangerous business.
Ogilvy has been acting for Barton, but we don't think that he is class enough.
He sat up at last with a gasp and a scowl.
"I thought him too light built, and I think so now," said the horse breaker, still tapping his prominent teeth with the metal head of his riding whip.
"And you, Purvis?"
Ah, you would?
Without money for his classes, and without a situation-what was to become of him?
His trouble was deeper and more personal.
"Gentlemen," said he, "I'll do it!"
A pleasant sense of relief thrilled softly through him.
At first it had enraged him, but after a time he had grown callous to it, and accepted it as it was meant.
It was absolute ruin.
The publican had seized his right hand, the horse dealer his left, and the Cantab slapped him on the back.
You'll find all you want there: clubs, punching ball, bars, dumb bells, everything. Then you'll want a sparring partner.
"It is the most sporting thing I ever heard of in my life," said young Wilson.
"But suppose you was trained?" said the publican.
The doctor's lips had thinned into a narrow line.
Have you been weighed lately, mr Montgomery?"
But, such as it was, it brought him his board and One pound a week-enough to help him during the summer months and let him save a few pounds towards his winter keep.
"One moment, sir!
Of course, you might not like to take the hundred pounds; but I have no doubt that, in the case of your winning, we could arrange that it should take the form of a watch or piece of plate, or any other shape which might suggest itself to you.
"A hundred and thirty."
I could stan' such fly flappin' all day.
You know the out house in my garden?"
He would test the reality of this philanthropy.
"But he need never know-not before the fight, at any rate.
"And well I knew you would," said Purvis, "for it would be somethin' new to find Isaac Fawcett as a spoil sport.
It was the first direct question which had been asked him.
Outside, through the grimy surgery window over a foreground of blackened brick and slate, a line of enormous chimneys like Cyclopean pillars upheld the lowering, dun coloured cloud bank.
"Yes, that's right enough," said the Cantab.
What blessed safety valve was this through which his jangled nerves might find some outlet.
He had shrewd, light blue eyes with foxy lashes, and he also leaned forward in silence from his chair, a fat, red hand upon either knee, and stared critically at the young assistant.
It was a sinister but powerful face, the face of a debauched hero, clean shaven, strongly eye browed, keen eyed, with huge, aggressive jaw, and an animal dewlap beneath it.
You may find yourself molested by the blackguards whom it will attract."
It is really a prize fight."
I should recommend a visit to the ruins of saint Bridget's Church, a very interesting relic of the early Norman era. By the way, there is one objection which I see to your going to Croxley on Saturday.
Conceding two stone, he fought a draw with the famous Billy McQuire, and afterwards, for a purse of fifty pounds, he defeated Sam Hare at the Pelican Club, London.
The whole history of the Croxley Master was given in full, his many victories, his few defeats.
"Well, there is no prettier country when once you are past the iron works.
But you will realise, mr Montgomery, that while there are such influences for us to counteract, it is very necessary that we should live up to our highest."
Having in his youth shown a surprising aptitude for the game, he fought his way up among his comrades, until he became the recognised champion of the district and won the proud title which he still holds.
"Runs a bit light at the loins, to my way of thinking'."
I have never claimed one.
The sheet of the paper which he held up was a lake of print around an islet of illustration.
At this period it looked as if the very highest honours of the ring were within the reach of the young Yorkshireman, but he was laid upon the shelf by a most unfortunate accident.
A hard veteran full of cool valour and ring craft, could give ten or fifteen years and a beating to most striplings.
"It entails unnecessary work upon the cook.
"Broke his leg, has he?"
He had the well curved nose and the widely opened eye which never yet were seen upon the face of a craven, and behind everything he had the driving force, which came from the knowledge that his whole career was at stake upon the contest.
If he hadn't broke his leg he'd have been champion of England."
Meanwhile, if his opponent were the best man who ever jumped the ropes into a ring, his own duty was clear.
"And you no longer drink your beer?"
"Yes, sir; I think that I am better without them."
"Ten stone eleven," the assistant answered.
There are various rumours afloat as to who their representative is to be, the name of Ted Barton being freely mentioned; but the betting, which is seven to one on the Master against any untried man, is a fair reflection of the feeling of the community.
He had been exhorted to go in for the Amateur Championships, but he had no particular ambition in that direction.
It was not a cheering record which he read there.
"I should be glad if you could let me have leave for Saturday, dr Oldacre."
After all, what did it matter?
The doctor's sermon would have had more effect if the assistant had not once or twice had occasion to test his highest, and come upon it at unexpectedly humble elevations.
There was an old ring proverb that "Youth will be served," but the annals of the ring offer a great number of exceptions.
His muscular development was finely hard, but his power came rather from that higher nerve energy which counts for nothing upon a measuring tape.
But his arms-well, if they was both stropped to a bench, as the sayin' is, I wonder where the champion of England would be then."
"Hang it, I'm only twenty three!" said Montgomery to himself, and read on more cheerfully.
Hard hitting was the feature of his own style, and he exacted it from others.
The medical assistant sat for a time in the surgery turning it over a little in his mind.
Those specially developed, gutta percha like abdominal muscles of the hardened pugilist will take without flinching a blow which would leave another man writhing on the ground.
"I should do a double day's work on Friday so as to leave everything in order.
Barton was full of admiration for his cleverness and quickness, but doubtful about his strength.
His conscience gave him no concern upon the subject.
"Yes, sir."
The three backers rubbed their hands when they saw him at work punching the ball in the gymnasium next morning; and Fawcett, the horse breaker, who had written to Leeds to hedge his bets, sent a wire to cancel the letter, and to lay another fifty at the market price of seven to one.
"No, sir; I have had some business to detain me."
"I am going over Croxley way."
On the Friday night, which was the last night before the fight, Montgomery's three backers assembled in the gymnasium and inspected their man as he went through some light exercises to keep his muscles supple.
"You are very wise.
There was his whole record, and was it enough to encourage him to stand up to the Master of Croxley?
The coolness, the power of hitting, above all the capability of taking punishment, count for so much.
It is always so particularly easy to "compound for sins we're most inclined to by damning those we have no mind to." In any case, Montgomery felt that of all the men concerned in such a fight-promoters, backers, spectators-it is the actual fighter who holds the strongest and most honourable position.
The three walked round him and exulted.
dr Oldacre gave in with a very bad grace.
Do it again, lad, do it again!"
If he could not get leave he would go without it.
"I am afraid I cannot spare you, mr Montgomery."
A local ruffian, a patient of ours, by the way, matched against a pugilist over at Croxley. I cannot understand why the law does not step in and stop so degrading an exhibition.
"He's simply ripping!" said the undergraduate.
And, lastly, there was the chance that the Master might underrate his opponent, that he might be remiss in his training, and refuse to abandon his usual way of life, if he thought that he had an easy task before him.
"No, sir.
The assistant strolled down there after tea and asked, in a casual way, whether the tobacconist had ever heard of the Master of Croxley.
The long, obstinate cheeks ran flush up to the narrow, sinister eyes.
The mighty neck came down square from the ears and curved outwards into shoulders, which had lost nothing at the hands of the local artist.
"No doubt, sir, but at present I prefer to do without them."
It seems dreadful and almost incredible-does it not?--to think that such scenes can be enacted within a few miles of our peaceful home.
I should hope to be back in the evening."
In eighteen ninety one a decision was given against him upon a foul when fighting a winning fight against Jim Taylor, the Australian middle weight, and so mortified was he by the decision, that he withdrew from the ring.
If he won, there was the money, which meant so much to him.
"I believe that to be the correct term.
Born in eighteen fifty seven (said the provincial biographer), Silas Craggs, better known in sporting circles as the Master of Croxley, is now in his fortieth year.
He could not rely too much upon his advantage in age. But then there was the lameness; that must surely count for a great deal.
The latest of these ambitious souls comes from the Wilson coal pits, which have undertaken to put up a stake of one hundred pounds and back their local champion.
You will find a quiet day among the wild flowers a very valuable restorative.
"I will take my chance of that, sir," said the assistant.
"I hear that the Master will scale a hundred and sixty odd at the ring side."
I observe, also, that you have turned against potatoes."
Endurance and courage are virtues, not vices, and brutality is, at least, better than effeminacy.
"No, sir."
His work took him a large part of the day, but as the visiting was done on foot, and considerable distances had to be traversed, it was a training in itself.
The latter was a coarse wood cut of a pugilist's head and neck set in a cross barred jersey.
Such fads are not to be encouraged in one's youth.
Happen thou'lt pull through yet." He chuckled with joy when Montgomery knocked him into a corner.
"It is very near to my heart that my household should set a good example.
There was something in the cool insistence of the young man, a quiet resolution in his voice as he claimed his Saturday, which aroused his curiosity.
The kick of a horse broke his thigh, and for a year he was compelled to rest himself.
The doctor was boiling over with anger, but Montgomery was a valuable assistant-steady, capable, and hardworking-and he could not afford to lose him.
"In the country?"
Ambitious of a more than local fame, he secured a patron, and fought his first fight against Jack Barton, of Birmingham, in may eighteen eighty, at the old Loiterers' Club.
"Heard of him!
One of my patients tells me that it is the talk of the district.
But he knew enough to appreciate the difference which exists in boxing, as in every sport, between the amateur and the professional.
"What weight to day?"
The only part of Montgomery's training which came within the doctor's observation was his diet, and that puzzled him considerably.
"You will remember, dr Oldacre, that when I came to you it was understood that I should have a clear day every month.
Even if he had been prompted to advance those class fees, for which his assistant had appealed, it would have been against his interests to do so, for he did not wish him to qualify, and he desired him to remain in his subordinate position, in which he worked so hard for so small a wage.
"Yes, sir."
If he lost, it would only mean a thrashing.
They contend for a sum of money.
The medical assistant had a good basis to start from.
There were a few points in his favour, and he must make the most of them. There was age-twenty three against forty.
Above was written "Silas Craggs," and beneath, "The Master of Croxley."
"I find that it suits me better than bread, sir."
"Happen he's a trifle on the fine side," said the publican.
"You don't go to service, I observe, mr Montgomery" said he, coldly.
"Yes, and it set badly.
"It is very inconvenient upon so busy a day."
Undismayed by his reverses, the Master adapted the style of his fighting to his physical disabilities and resumed his career of victory-defeating Norton (the black), Hobby Wilson, and Levi Cohen, the latter a heavy weight.
They were sitting alone at lunch, and the assistant thought that it would be a good opportunity of asking leave for the day of the fight.
There was a little tobacco shop at the corner of the street, where Montgomery got his bird's eye and also his local information, for the shopman was a garrulous soul, who knew everything about the affairs of the district.
He must prepare himself carefully, throw away no chance, and do the very best that he could.
"I'll take this with me," said Montgomery; and putting the paper into his pocket he returned home.
Montgomery's chief difficulty was to find time for his training without any interference from the doctor.
"These causeless whims and fancies are very much to be deprecated, mr Montgomery.
Such things are not to be acquired in a week, but all that could be done in a week should be done.
"Very good.
Have your way."
This was a facer.
Do you still insist?"
It was true that his teacher was long past his prime, slow upon his feet, and stiff in his joints, but even so he was still a tough antagonist; but Montgomery had found at last that he could more than hold his own with him.
Why do you eat toast with every meal?"
Montgomery read it over twice, and it left him with a very serious face. No light matter this which he had undertaken; no battle with a rough and tumble fighter who presumed upon a local reputation. The man's record showed that he was first-class--or nearly so.
At Dunstaffnage he sent his second son Charles on Shore to call the Campbells to arms.
Monmouth was to command in England.
The personal interest of William was also on this occasion identical with the interest of his father in law.
This delay was full of danger.
It was hinted that the late King had died by poison.
Then, instead of applying, as he should have done, to the States General, who sate close to his own door, he sent a messenger to the magistrates of Amsterdam, with a request that the suspected ships might be detained.
The voyage was prosperous.
It was determined that two Englishmen, Ayloffe and Rumbold, should accompany Argyle to Scotland, and that Fletcher should go with Monmouth to England.
At length all differences were compromised.
When Grey repeated with approbation what Wildman had said about Richmond and Richard, the well read and thoughtful Scot justly remarked that there was a great difference between the fifteenth century and the seventeenth.
When it was found that treachery could do nothing, arbitrary power was used.
In one point, however, he was vulnerable.
A proclamation was accordingly issued directing that Scotland should be put into a state of defence.
Locke had, at Oxford, abstained from expressing any opinion on the politics of the day.
On the sixth the Orkneys were in sight. Argyle very unwisely anchored off Kirkwall, and allowed two of his followers to go on shore there.
The King said that he had received from unquestionable sources intelligence of designs which were forming against the throne by his banished subjects in Holland.
The herdsmen and fishermen were indeed ready to rally round Mac Callum More; but, of the heads of the clan, some were in confinement, and others had fled.
But no effectual step was taken for the purpose of detaining him; and on the afternoon of the second of May he stood out to sea before a favourable breeze.
Six thousand pounds had been expected thence.
Others were compelled to give hostages.
Ambitious hopes, which had seemed to be extinguished, revived in his bosom.
It was speedily known at Edinburgh that the rebel squadron had touched at the Orkneys.
A chief object of the expedition was declared to be the entire suppression, not only of Popery, but of Prelacy, which was termed the most bitter root and offspring of Popery; and all good Scotchmen were exhorted to do valiantly for the cause of their country and of their God.
After vainly trying to inveigle Locke into a fault, the government resolved to punish him without one.
The Bishop ordered them to be arrested. The refugees proceeded to hold a long and animated debate on this misadventure: for, from the beginning to the end of their expedition, however languid and irresolute their conduct might be, they never in debate wanted spirit or perseverance.
But the case was one which required rapid and vigorous action; and the nature of the Batavian institutions made such action almost impossible. The Union of Utrecht, rudely formed, amidst the agonies of a revolution, for the purpose of meeting immediate exigencies, had never been deliberately revised and perfected in a time of tranquillity.
Spies had been set about him.
It seemed probable that he would consent to form a close alliance with the United Provinces and the House of Austria.
The Admiralty of Amsterdam made this error a plea for doing nothing; and, before the error could be rectified, the three ships had sailed.
Some of the exiles were cutthroats, whom nothing but the special providence of God had prevented from committing a foul murder; and among them was the owner of the spot which had been fixed for the butchery.
Excellent judges of character pronounced him to be the most shallow, fickle, passionate, presumptuous, and garrulous of men.
It is remarkable that the most illustrious and the most grossly injured man among the British exiles stood far aloof from these rash counsels. john Locke hated tyranny and persecution as a philosopher; but his intellect and his temper preserved him from the violence of a partisan. He had lived on confidential terms with Shaftesbury, and had thus incurred the displeasure of the court.
Some were for an attack on Kirkwall.
Skelton now addressed himself to the States General.
john Murray, Marquess of Athol, was appointed Lord Lieutenant of Argyleshire, and, at the head of a great body of his followers, occupied the castle of Inverary.
Some suspected persons were arrested.
One of those boards sate at Amsterdam, was partly nominated by the authorities of that city, and seems to have been entirely animated by their spirit.
He was a student of Christ Church in the University of Oxford.
It was determined that an attempt should be forthwith made on the western coast of Scotland, and that it should be promptly followed by a descent on England.
And all the people cried to the Lord with great earnestness, and they humbled their souls in fastings, and prayers, both they and their wives.
And though they did these things, they could not for all that mitigate the fierceness of his heart:
And when the Egyptians had cast them out from them, and the plague had ceased from them, and they had a mind to take them again, and bring them back to their service,
Nevertheless there were springs not far from the walls, out of which they were seen secretly to draw water, to refresh themselves a little rather than to drink their fill.
The character of Judith: her discourse to the ancients.
And they cried to the Lord the God of Israel with one accord, that their children might not be made a prey, and their wives carried off, and their cities destroyed, and their holy things profaned, and that they might not be made a reproach to the Gentiles.
Remember Moses the servant of the Lord overcame Amalec that trusted in his own strength, and in his power, and in his army, and in his shields, and in his chariots, and in his horsemen, not by fighting with the sword, but by holy prayers:
For which crime they were given up to their enemies, to the sword, and to pillage, and to confusion: but we know no other God but him.
And that thou mayst know that thou shalt experience these things together with them, behold from this hour thou shalt be associated to their people, that when they shall receive the punishment they deserve from my sword, thou mayst fall under the same vengeance.
For perhaps he will put a stop to his indignation, and will give glory to his own name.
Then the kings and the princes of all the cities and provinces, of Syria, Mesopotamia, and Syria Sobal, and Libya, and Cilicia sent their ambassadors, who coming to Holofernes, said:
This is not a word that may draw down mercy, but rather that may stir up wrath, and enkindle indignation.
Judith Chapter four
The distress of the besieged.
The church...
But esteeming these very punishments to be less than our sins deserve, let us believe that these scourges of the Lord, with which like servants we are chastised, have happened for our amendment, and not for our destruction.
Judith Chapter seven
So they being moved by this exhortation of his, prayed to the Lord, and continued in the sight of the Lord.
We have sinned with our fathers, we have done unjustly, we have committed iniquity:
And he called all the ancients, and all the governors, and his officers of war, and communicated to them the secret of his counsel:
And he went forth he and all the army, with the chariots, and horsemen, and archers, who covered the face of the earth, like locusts.
That is, the synagogue or place where they met for prayer.
All these prepared themselves together to fight against the children of Israel, and they came by the hillside to the top, which looketh toward Dothain, from the place which is called Belma, unto Chelmon, which is over against Esdrelon.
And when the Lord our God shall give this liberty to his servants, let God be with thee also in the midst of us: that as it shall please thee, so thou with all thine mayst converse with us.
Judith Chapter six
But the children of Israel, when they saw the multitude of them, prostrated themselves upon the ground, putting ashes upon their heads, praying with one accord, that the God of Israel would shew his mercy upon his people.
So Isaac, so Jacob, so Moses, and all that have pleased God, passed through many tribulations, remaining faithful.
And he took by assault the renowned city of Melothus, and pillaged all the children of Tharsis, and the children of Ismahel, who were over against the face of the desert, and on the south of the land of Cellon.
But if there be no offence of this people in the sight of their God, we cannot resist them because their God will defend them: and we shall be a reproach to the whole earth.
That they may not say among the Gentiles: Where is their God?
Saying: The God of our fathers, whose power thou hast set forth, will make this return to thee, that thou rather shalt see their destruction.
And taking their arms of war, they posted themselves at the places, which by a narrow pathway lead directly between the mountains, and they guarded them all day and night.
And she was exceedingly beautiful, and her husband left her great riches, and very many servants, and large possessions of herds of oxen, and flocks of sheep.
But on the square of them, each side was extended the space of twenty feet.
But if after five days be past there come no aid, we will do the things which you have spoken.
Let all we have be subject to thy law,
Judith Chapter eight
Now there were in his troops a hundred and twenty thousand footmen, and two and twenty thousand horsemen, besides the preparations of those men who had been taken, and who had been brought away out of the provinces and cities of all the youth.
So that which I intend to do prove ye if it be of God, and pray that God may strengthen my design.
And why they above all that dwell in the east, have despised us, and have not come out to meet us, that they might receive us with peace?
And he made all his warlike preparations to go before with a multitude of innumerable camels, with all provisions sufficient for the armies in abundance, and herds of oxen, and flocks of sheep, without number.
And now, brethren, as you are the ancients among the people of God, and their very soul resteth upon you: comfort their hearts by your speech, that they may be mindful how our fathers were tempted that they might be proved, whether they worshipped their God truly.
Judith Chapter three
Then Holofernes called the captains, and officers of the power of the Assyrians: and he mustered men for the expedition, and the king commanded him, a hundred and twenty thousand fighting men on foot, and twelve thousand archers, horsemen.
It is always in action and motion, still busy, still pretending to do all, to furnish all the powers and faculties with all that they have; but if an enemy dare rise up against it, it is the soonest endangered, the soonest defeated of any part.
three.
one.
In the mean time, Herod's affairs in Judea were in an ill state.
five.
six.
But why need I go farther?
The genesis and growth of possession gradually forcing people to labor for their support, they agreed either formally or tacitly,--it makes no difference which,--that the laborer should be sole proprietor of the fruit of his labor; that is, they simply declared the fact that thereafter none could live without working.
Vain pretext!
To satisfy the husbandman, it was sufficient to guarantee him possession of his crop; admit even that he should have been protected in his right of occupation of land, as long as he remained its cultivator.
HE HAS PUT ALL THINGS UNDER MY FEET,--and I have not where to lay my head! MULTIPLY, he tells us through his interpreter, Pothier.
"Agriculture was a natural consequence of the multiplication of the human race, and agriculture, in its turn, favors population, and necessitates the establishment of permanent property; for who would take the trouble to plough and sow, if he were not certain that he would reap?"
In this we see what a wonderful change has been effected in property, and to what an extent Nature has been altered by the civil laws."
Whoever without labor got possession, by force or by strategy, of another's means of subsistence, destroyed equality, and placed himself above or outside of the law.
A famished stomach knows no morality,--
What is justice without equality of fortunes?
Blind law; the law of the ignorant man; a law which is not a law; the voice of discord, deceit, and blood!
But in what thing?
If the form could be separated from the object, perhaps there would be room for question; but as this is almost always impossible, the application of man's strength to the different parts of the visible world is the foundation of the right of property, the primary origin of riches."
Under the regime of property, labor is not a condition, but a privilege.
What sort of justice is it, then, which makes such laws as this:--
Whoever monopolized the means of production on the ground of greater industry, also destroyed equality.
This new basis of property is worse than the first, and I shall soon have to ask your pardon for having demonstrated things clearer, and refuted pretensions more unjust, than any which we have yet considered.
Every occupant is, then, necessarily a possessor or usufructuary,--a function which excludes proprietorship.
For that reason, every institution and every law based on property will perish.
His old opinions cannot be taken for articles of faith.
Now, this is the right of the usufructuary: he is responsible for the thing entrusted to him; he must use it in conformity with general utility, with a view to its preservation and development; he has no power to transform it, to diminish it, or to change its nature; he cannot so divide the usufruct that another shall perform the labor while he receives the product.
"Eternal principle,--"
'This definition is not exact.
Corner stone of all which is, stumbling block of all which ought to be,--such is property.
What a profound disgust fills my soul while discussing such simple truths!
Not only does occupation lead to equality, it PREVENTS property.
So we are indebted to property for the creation of the civil State."
Useless distinction!
Would you believe it?
Because justice was supposed to be its principle.
The consequences are plain enough, and this is not the time to criticise the whole Code.
This it is which Christianity has condemned, but which its ignorant ministers deify; who have as little desire to study Nature and man, as ability to read their Scriptures.
Thus the soil came to be appropriated through need of the equality which is essential to public security and peaceable possession.
For the human race he has created the earth and all its creatures, and has given it a control over them subordinate only to his own.
Now, property is no exception to this rule: then the universal recognition of the right of property does not legitimate the right of property.
"Therefore, the right of appropriation by labor shall never be admitted against individuals, but only against society."
It was not right that the soldier, on returning from an expedition, should find himself dispossessed on account of the services which he had just rendered to his country; his estate ought to be restored to him.
"It is a boon as precious as liberty."
"All public order,--"
"Some philosophers pretend that man, in employing his forces upon a natural object,--say a field or a tree,--acquires a right only to the improvements which he makes, to the form which he gives to the object, not to the object itself.
Pothier seems to think that property, like royalty, exists by divine right.
To sum up and conclude:--
"In fact, the cause of the cultivation of the habitable earth."
If the form cannot be separated from the object, nor property from possession, possession must be shared; in any case, society reserves the right to fix the conditions of property.
Undoubtedly the division was never geographically equal; a multitude of rights, some founded in Nature, but wrongly interpreted and still more wrongly applied, inheritance, gift, and exchange; others, like the privileges of birth and position, the illegitimate creations of ignorance and brute force,--all operated to prevent absolute equality.
ALL HAVE AN EQUAL RIGHT OF OCCUPANCY.
But none of these titles confer upon me the right of property.
"The human race having multiplied, men divided among themselves the earth and most of the things upon it; that which fell to each, from that time exclusively belonged to him.
"Whereas, since labor so changes the form of a thing that the form and substance cannot be separated without destroying the thing itself, either society must be disinherited, or the laborer must lose the fruit of his labor; and
He begins in this way:--
A balance with false weights.
The German Ancillon replies thus:--
Let me call the attention of the writers on jurisprudence to their own maxims.
"How could this claim, made valid by occupation, become stable and permanent property, which might continue to stand, and which might be reclaimed after the first occupant had relinquished possession?
After this magnificent introduction, who would refuse to believe the human race to be an immense family living in brotherly union, and under the protection of a venerable father?
It has sanctioned selfishness; it has indorsed monstrous pretensions; it has received with favor impious vows, as if it were able to fill up a bottomless pit, and to satiate hell!
Certainly, the preservation of property,--
"The application of justice."
As long as man is opposed to man, property offsets property, and the two forces balance each other; as soon as man is isolated, that is, opposed to the society which he himself represents, jurisprudence is at fault: Themis has lost one scale of her balance.
Of what consequence is it to us that the Indian race was divided into four classes; that, on the banks of the Nile and the Ganges, blood and position formerly determined the distribution of the land; that the Greeks and romans placed property under the protection of the gods; that they accompanied with religious ceremonies the work of partitioning the land and appraising their goods?
But what is there in common between these rude outlines of instinctive organization and the true social science?
Possession alone produced all that.
Are fathers unnatural, and children prodigal?
"Without the ties of property it never would have been possible to subordinate men to the wholesome yoke of the law; and without permanent property the earth would have remained a vast forest.
If the cultivator ceased to be a tenant, would the land be worse cared for?
Evidently IN THE PRODUCT, not IN THE SOIL. So the Arabs have always understood it; and so, according to Caesar and Tacitus, the Germans formerly held.
The field which I have cleared, which I cultivate, on which I have built my house, which supports myself, my family, and my livestock, I can possess: first.
For, if I attempt to base it upon occupancy, society can reply, "I am the original occupant." If I appeal to my labor, it will say, "It is only on that condition that you possess." If I speak of agreements, it will respond, "These agreements establish only your right of use." Such, however, are the only titles which proprietors advance.
But, nevertheless, the principle remained the same: equality had sanctioned possession; equality sanctioned property.
For the rich proprietor.
Finally, that, inasmuch as possession, in right, can never remain fixed, it is impossible, in fact, that it can ever become property.
Why, in according possession, has it also conceded property?
"The right of property is the most important of human institutions."...
Why has the law sanctioned this abuse of power?
The law is intended to protect men's mutual rights,--that is, the rights of each against each, and each against all; and, as if a proportion could exist with less than four terms, the law makers always disregard the latter.
Comte, who has devoted half a volume to its definition, was in the beginning only the EXPRESSION OF A WANT, and the indication of the means of supplying it; and up to this time it has been nothing else.
"The guarantee and the morality of labor."
By virtue of the social contract which assigns it to me as my share.
Why, then, has society recognized a right injurious to itself, where there is no producing cause?
Men lived in a state of communism; whether positive or negative it matters little.
That was all that he had a right to expect; that was all that the advance of civilization demanded.
The original cultivators of the land, who were also the original makers of the law, were not as learned as our legislators, I admit; and had they been, they could not have done worse: they did not foresee the consequences of the transformation of the right of private possession into the right of absolute property.
This no code has ever expressed; this no constitution can admit!
This it is which, continually revived, reinstated, rejuvenated, restored, re enforced-as the palladium of society-has troubled the consciences of the people, has obscured the minds of the masters, and has induced all the catastrophes which have befallen nations.
The individual passes away, society is deathless.
The history of property among the ancient nations is, then, simply a matter of research and curiosity.
"Agriculture alone was not sufficient to establish permanent property; positive laws were needed, and magistrates to execute them; in a word, the civil State was needed.
It has literally CREATED a right outside of its own province.
Man is mistaken as to the constitution of society, the nature of right, and the application of justice; just as he was mistaken regarding the cause of meteors and the movement of the heavenly bodies.
What was its standard?
Yes, of our civil State, as you have made it; a State which, at first, was despotism, then monarchy, then aristocracy, today democracy, and always tyranny.
Agriculture was the foundation of territorial possession, and the original cause of property.
It necessarily followed that, to obtain equality of products, there must be equality of labor; and that, to obtain equality of labor, there must be equality of facilities for labor.
But I hear the exclamations of the partisans of another system: "Labor, labor! that is the basis of property!"
"The multiplication of the human race had rendered agriculture necessary; the need of securing to the cultivator the fruit of his labor made permanent property necessary, and also laws for its protection.
But, indeed, what guide did the law follow in creating the domain of property?
Property is eternal, like every negation,--
What principle directed it?
This payment is not rent, it is an indemnity.
They did not foresee....
"Property became the legitimate end of his ambition, the hope of his existence, the shelter of his family; in a word, the corner stone of the domestic dwelling, of communities, and of the political State."
Then there was no property, not even private possession.
"The original cause of man's prosperity upon earth."
who pretended to have it?
How could these men, who never had the faintest idea of statistics, valuation, or political economy, furnish us with principles of legislation?
It was equality.
The investigations of eighteen thirty eight had pointed out, as the causes or rather as the symptoms of the social malady, the neglect of the principles of religion and morality, the desire for wealth, the passion for enjoyment, and political disturbances.
"To sum up all these ideas in one inclusive question: What is the principle of heredity?
"Since that time, metaphysics and moral science have been my only studies; my perception of the fact that these sciences, though badly defined as to their object and not confined to their sphere, are, like the natural sciences, susceptible of demonstration and certainty, has already rewarded my efforts.
"Such, gentlemen, is the object of the memoir that I offer you to day.
We each possess the merit of sincerity; I desire also the merit of prudence.
"I wish, sir, that my impaired health would permit me to examine with you, page by page, the memoir which you have done me the honor to address to me publicly and personally; I think I could offer some important criticisms.
"May you, gentlemen, desire equality as I myself desire it; may you, for the eternal happiness of our country, become its propagators and its heralds; may I be the last of your pensioners!
I believe, then, that you have handled property as Rousseau, eighty years ago, handled letters, with a magnificent and poetical display of wit and knowledge.
To restore religion, gentlemen, it is necessary to condemn the Church.
Two months after the receipt of this letter, the Academy, in its debate of august twenty fourth, replied to the address of its pensioner by a note, the text of which I give below:--
This argument did not meet with your approbation, since, without denying the relation pointed out by the competitor, you judged, and rightly gentlemen, that the principle of equality of conditions not being demonstrated, the ideas of the author were nothing more than hypotheses.
You know that as well as any one.
Literary hope and faith I have none. The nineteenth century is, in my eyes, a genesic era, in which new principles are elaborated, but in which nothing that is written shall endure.
You admitted that yourselves, gentlemen when your committee reported that the competitors had enumerated with exactness the immediate and particular causes of suicide, as well as the means of preventing each of them; but that from this enumeration, chronicled with more or less skill, no positive information had been gained, either as to the primary cause of the evil, or as to its remedy.
I have aspired to your suffrages and sought the title of your pensioner, hating all which exists and full of projects for its destruction; I shall finish this investigation in a spirit of calm and philosophical resignation.
"These three propositions, put to vote, are adopted."
Still further, it is necessary to show the method by which the new system will satisfy all the moral and political needs which induced the establishment of the first.
"PARIS, may first eighteen forty one.
Thenceforth I understood with how worthy and honorable a society I had to deal: my regard for its enlightenment, my recognition of its benefits, my enthusiasm for its glory, were unbounded.
"I have been pitiless in my criticism of the economists: for them I confess that, in general, I have no liking.
In a society like ours, to seek for literary glory seems to me an anachronism.
"In eighteen thirty nine, your programme, always original and varied in its academical expression, became more exact.
Is property, then, in your eyes a thing so simple and so abstract that you can re knead and equalize it, if I may so speak, in your metaphysical mill?
He is of the opinion that the society owes it to justice, to example, and to its own dignity, to publicly disavow all responsibility for the anti social doctrines contained in this publication.
"My purpose in this work is the application of method to the problems of philosophy; every other intention is foreign to and even abusive of it.
The terms by which you characterize the fanatics of our day are strong enough to reassure the most suspicious imaginations as to your intentions; but you conclude in favor of the abolition of property!
That the pensioner be charged, in case he should publish a second edition of his book, to omit the dedication;
I am very glad that you have modified somewhat the rudeness of form which gave to a work of such gravity the manner and appearance of a pamphlet; for you quite frightened me, sir, and your talent was needed to reassure me in regard to your intentions.
On the following conditions, then, of subsequent evidence, depends the correctness of my preceding arguments:--
"It is for you now, gentlemen, whose mission and character are the proclamation of the truth, it is for you to instruct the people, and to tell them for what they ought to hope and what they ought to fear.
To gain the victory for one's cause, it does not suffice simply to overthrow a principle generally recognized, which has the indisputable merit of systematically recapitulating our political theories; it is also necessary to establish the opposite principle, and to formulate the system which must proceed from it.
The people, incapable as yet of sound judgment as to what is best for them, applaud indiscriminately the most opposite ideas, provided that in them they get a taste of flattery: to them the laws of thought are like the confines of the possible; to day they can no more distinguish between a savant and a sophist, than formerly they could tell a physician from a sorcerer.
In a word, can the principle of succession become a principle of equality?
Well, I no longer aspire to this sad success!
"Farewell, sir!
For the moment, I must content myself with thanking you for the kind words in which you have seen fit to speak of me.
But see to it, sir, that ere long they do not come, in spite of you, to seek for ammunition in this formidable arsenal, and that your vigorous metaphysics falls not into the hands of some sophist of the market place, who might discuss the question in the presence of a starving audience: we should have pillage for conclusion and peroration.
In pruning an old tree, we guard against destruction of the buds and fruit.
Such, at least, is my opinion.
But I do not reason from the abuse to the abolition,--an heroic remedy too much like death, which cures all evils.
But if you have softened the form, you are none the less faithful to the ground work of your doctrines; and although you have done me the honor to give me a share in this perilous teaching, I cannot accept a partnership which, as far as talent goes, would surely be a credit to me, but which would compromise me in all other respects.
Your co-operation, your programmes, your instructions, in agreement with my secret wishes and most cherished hopes, have at no time failed to enlighten me and to point out my road; this memoir on property is the child of your thought.
"Thereby it asked, in less general terms, what was the cause of the social evil, and what was its remedy?
That is the reason, in my opinion, why, among so many men of talent, France to day counts not one great writer.
It may be wrong for me to say it, but surely it is unfortunate for Christianity that it is true.
"Finally, gentlemen, this fundamental principle of equality you presented for competition in the following terms: THE ECONOMICAL AND MORAL CONSEQUENCES IN FRANCE UP TO THE PRESENT TIME, AND THOSE WHICH SEEM LIKELY TO APPEAR IN FUTURE, OF THE LAW CONCERNING THE EQUAL DIVISION OF HEREDITARY PROPERTY BETWEEN THE CHILDREN.
"Can equality, by the right of succession, be preserved between citizens, as well as between cousins and brothers?
You wish to abolish the most powerful motor of the human mind; you attack the paternal sentiment in its sweetest illusions; with one word you arrest the formation of capital, and we build henceforth upon the sand instead of on a rock.
You have not written directly for them.
"I now propose, gentlemen, to discharge this duty.
"But, gentlemen, of all the masters whom I have followed, to none do I owe so much as to you.
Of all the wishes that I can frame, that, gentlemen, is the most worthy of you and the most honorable for me.
"P.
You have issued two magnificent manifestoes, the second more guarded than the first; issue a third more guarded than the second, and you will take high rank in science, whose first precept is calmness and impartiality.
"I have severely blamed the learned Christian Church: it was my duty. This blame results from the facts which I call attention to: why has the Church decreed concerning things which it does not understand?
"Your pensioner,
Do you think that one can be a robber without knowing it, without wishing it, without suspecting it?
"I have spoken lightly of jurisprudence: I had the right; but I should be unjust did I not distinguish between this pretended science and the men who practise it.
If the present laws allow abuse, we can reconstruct them. Our civil code is not the Koran; it is not wrong to examine it.
The following letter served as a preface to the first edition of this memoir:--
Of what use is it to invoke an ancient sibyl when a muse is on the eve of birth? Pitiable actors in a tragedy nearing its end, that which it behooves us to do is to precipitate the catastrophe.
"In eighteen thirty eight, the Academy of Besancon proposed the following question: TO WHAT CAUSES MUST WE ATTRIBUTE THE CONTINUALLY INCREASING NUMBER OF SUICIDES, AND WHAT ARE THE PROPER MEANS FOR ARRESTING THE EFFECTS OF THIS MORAL CONTAGION?
Change, then, the laws which govern the use of property, but be sparing of anathemas; for, logically, where is the honest man whose hands are entirely clean?
This proposition, now coming into notice-PROPERTY IS ROBBERY!--was of a nature to repel from your book even those serious minds who do not judge by appearances, had you persisted in maintaining it in its rude simplicity.
I will go farther: I will confess that, of all abuses, the most hateful to me are those of property; but once more, there is a remedy for this evil without violating it, all the more without destroying it.
What is property?
"In a Christian tongue you asked, gentlemen, what was the true system of society.
Whoever, knowing them, pardons them, may read them.
"I agree with you in one thing only; namely, that all kinds of property get too frequently abused in this world.
I try to serve and enlighten them, whereas some endeavor to mislead them.
"GENTLEMEN,--In the course of your debate of the ninth of May, eighteen thirty three, in regard to the triennial pension established by Madame Suard, you expressed the following wish:--
The Church has erred in dogma and in morals; physics and mathematics testify against her.
PREFACE.
The most deserving among us is he who plays best this part.
"Instead of confining one to common places without breadth or significance, it seems to me that your question should be developed as follows:--
Honest people can at least understand one another.
So much controversy fatigues and wearies me.
"Perhaps you will regret, gentlemen, that, in giving all my attention to method and evidence, I have too much neglected form and style: in vain should I have tried to do better.
"I feel as deeply as you, sir, the abuses which you point out; but I have so great an affection for order,--not that common and strait laced order with which the police are satisfied, but the majestic and imposing order of human societies,--that I sometimes find myself embarrassed in attacking certain abuses.
That I cannot agree to; and for that reason I have criticised your book, so full of beautiful pages, so brilliant with knowledge and fervor!
Into his house the happy man rushed, to tell his wife the good news.
Again and again they tried to melt it; but it resisted all their efforts.
And because of this public exposure of her secret fault, the poor woman became very much ashamed and very angry.
She longed for some chance to steal the mirror, and hide it,--that she might thereafter treasure it always.
She had not presented her offering with all her heart; and therefore her selfish soul, remaining attached to the mirror, kept it hard and cold in the midst of the furnace.
[Even to day, in the courts of certain Japanese temples, you may see heaps of old bronze mirrors contributed for such a purpose.
Only its legend remains; and in that legend it is called the Mugen Kane, or Bell of Mugen.
But, to the person who breaks that bell by ringing it, great wealth will be given by the ghost of me."
Among these folk was a dissolute farmer who lived near Mugenyama, on the bank of the Oigawa.
The magical meanings could not all be explained without a great variety of examples; but, for present purposes, the following will serve.
She knew it by the Sho Chiku Bai in relief on the back of it,--those three fortunate emblems of Pine, Bamboo, and Plumflower, which delighted her baby eyes when her mother first showed her the mirror.
Then, out of the ground before him, rose up the figure of a white robed woman, with long loose flowing hair, holding a covered jar.
But the chance did not come; and she became very unhappy,--felt as if she had foolishly given away a part of her life.
OF A MIRROR AND A BELL
So the ringing became an affliction; and the priests could not endure it; and they got rid of the bell by rolling it down the hill into a swamp.
After the bell had been rolled into the swamp, there was, of course, no more chance of ringing it in such wise as to break it.
And they found that it was filled, up to the very brim, with...
The swamp was deep, and swallowed it up,--and that was the end of the bell.
Day after day, at all hours, they continued to ring the bell furiously,--caring nothing whatever for the protests of the priests.
Of course, if she could have offered the priests a certain sum of money in place of the mirror, she could have asked them to give back her heirloom.
That is another kind of mimetic magic expressed by the term nazoraeru.
Of course everybody heard of the matter, and everybody soon knew whose mirror it was that would not melt.
Take, therefore, this jar." So saying, she put the jar into his hands, and disappeared.
He set down in front of her the covered jar,--which was heavy,--and they opened it together.
You cannot read the six thousand seven hundred and seventy one volumes of the Buddhist texts; but you can make a revolving library, containing them, turn round, by pushing it like a windlass.
The merit of so offering the pebble becomes equal, or almost equal, to the merit of erecting a temple...
They felt sure that the spirit of the writer would give wealth to the breaker of the bell; and, as soon as the bell had been suspended in the court of the temple, they went in multitude to ring it.
And as she could not bear the shame, she drowned herself, after having written a farewell letter containing these words:--
For example:--you cannot afford to build a Buddhist temple; but you can easily lay a pebble before the image of the Buddha, with the same pious feeling that would prompt you to build a temple if you were rich enough to build one.
The largest collection of this kind that I ever saw was in the court of a temple of the Jodo sect, at Hakata, in Kyushu: the mirrors had been given for the making of a bronze statue of Amida, thirty three feet high.]
After this happening, the fame of the Mugen Kane became great; and many people followed the example of Umegae,--thereby hoping to emulate her luck.
Evidently the woman who had given that mirror to the temple must have regretted the giving.
While the pair were traveling together, Kajiwara one day found himself in great straits for want of money; and Umegae, remembering the tradition of the Bell of Mugen, took a basin of bronze, and, mentally representing it to be the bell, beat upon it until she broke it,--crying out, at the same time, for three hundred pieces of gold.
Whenever she went to the temple, she saw her mirror lying in the court yard, behind a railing, among hundreds of other mirrors heaped there together.
Now there are queer old Japanese beliefs in the magical efficacy of a certain mental operation implied, though not described, by the verb nazoraeru.
"When I am dead, it will not be difficult to melt the mirror and to cast the bell.
Now, when all the mirrors contributed for the Mugenyama bell had been sent to the foundry, the bell founders discovered that there was one mirror among them which would not melt.
But she had not the money necessary.
And the woman said: "I have come to answer your fervent prayer as it deserves to be answered.
But she could not dare to speak of her pain to anybody.
With all their might and main they swung the ringing beam; but the bell proved to be a good bell, and it bravely withstood their assaults. Nevertheless, the people were not easily discouraged.
But no!--I really cannot tell you with what it was filled.
After the dead woman's mirror had been melted, and the bell had been successfully cast, people remembered the words of that letter.
And now it only remains to tell what became of the head.
But the strong priest had already armed himself by plucking up a young tree; and with that tree he struck the heads as they came,--knocking them from him with tremendous blows.
Scarcely had he lain down when a man came along the road, carrying an axe and a great bundle of chopped wood.
But I fear that I shall never find any way of so doing. Nevertheless, I try to overcome the karma of my errors by sincere repentance, and by helping as far as I can, those who are unfortunate."
To night I shall recite the sutras for your sake, and pray that you may obtain the force to overcome the karma of any past errors."
So, after having passed a night in prison, he was brought before the magistrates of the district.
"I am quite sure that the priest told us nothing but the truth.
Kwairyo at once removed his koromo, and offered it to the robber, who then first perceived what was hanging to the sleeve.
With the head still hanging to his sleeve he went back to the house, and there caught sight of the other four Rokuro Kubi squatting together, with their bruised and bleeding heads reunited to their bodies.
The woodcutter led him to a shed at the back of the house, whither water had been conducted, through bamboo pipes, from some neighboring stream; and the two men washed their feet.
It was a rough and dangerous path,--sometimes skirting precipices,--sometimes offering nothing but a network of slippery roots for the foot to rest upon,--sometimes winding over or between masses of jagged rock.
"Sir, you are not mistaken.
The woodcutter guided him along a narrow path, leading up from the main road through mountain forest.
With these assurances, Kwairyo bade the aruji good night; and his host showed him to a very small side room, where a bed had been made ready. Then all went to sleep except the priest, who began to read the sutras by the light of a paper lantern.
Retribution followed me; and I long remained a fugitive in the land.
"I shall let you have the head and the robe if you insist; but I must tell you that this is not the head of a man.
"Let us first examine the head carefully; for this, I think, has not yet been done.
I do not doubt that you have a good heart; and I hope that better fortune will come to you.
While yet a boy he had surpassed his teachers in the art of swordsmanship, in archery, and in the use of the spear, and had displayed all the capacities of a daring and skillful soldier.
And the book further says that when the head comes back and finds that its body has been moved, it will strike itself upon the floor three times,--bounding like a ball,--and will pant as in great fear, and presently die.
Then he was ordered to explain how he, a priest, had been found with the head of a man fastened to his sleeve, and why he had dared thus shamelessly to parade his crime in the sight of people.
But that is not the worst of the matter.
I was foolish to talk to him as I did;--it only set him to reciting the sutras on behalf of my soul!
As in other years he had laughed at peril, so now also he scorned danger; and in all weathers and all seasons he journeyed to preach the good Law in places where no other priest would have dared to go.
See him!--the fat coward!"...
Now I often pray that I may be able to make some atonement for the evil which I did, and to reestablish the ancestral home.
Though brave, the highwayman was startled: he dropped the garment, and sprang back.
Presently the head of the aruji stopped eating and said:--
In the holy sutras it is written that those strongest in wrong doing can become, by power of good resolve, the strongest in right doing.
As the Kwairyo, he only smiled and said nothing when they questioned him.
Perhaps you once belonged to the samurai class?"
So he made up his mind to take back the head to the place from which it had come, and to bury it with its body.
As for lonesome places, I like them: they are suitable for meditation.
But when the house of Kikuji came to ruin, Isogai found himself without a master.
Kwairyo answered:--
He might then easily have obtained service under another daimyo; but as he had never sought distinction for his own sake alone, and as his heart remained true to his former lord, he preferred to give up the world.
He found his way to the lonely cottage in the mountains of Kai; but nobody was there, and he could not discover the body.
Gently unbarring the door, he made his way to the garden, and proceeded with all possible caution to the grove beyond it.
"You kill men, and jest about it!...
"Take the thing," said Kwairyo.
Therefore he buried the head by itself, in the grove behind the cottage; and he had a tombstone set up over the grave; and he caused a Segaki service to be performed on behalf of the spirit of the Rokuro Kubi.
AND THERE HE IS-behind that tree!--hiding behind that tree!
The old man turned it round and round, carefully examined it, and discovered, on the nape of its neck, several strange red characters.
He called the attention of his colleagues to these, and also bade them observe that the edges of the neck nowhere presented the appearance of having been cut by any weapon.
It was dead.
Beyond the shed was a vegetable garden, and a grove of cedars and bamboos; and beyond the trees appeared the glimmer of a cascade, pouring from some loftier height, and swaying in the moonshine like a long white robe.
"I was not joking.
Will you sell it?
My story is the story of a ruined life-ruined by my own fault.
Here is my robe; and here is the money;--and let me have the head...
Are you not afraid of Hairy Things?"
"Sirs, I did not fasten the head to my sleeve: it fastened itself there-much against my will.
But as it is now nearly morning, perhaps he has gone to sleep...
If the priest has spoken truth, the head itself should bear witness for him...
A day or two after leaving Suwa, Kwairyo met with a robber, who stopped him in a lonesome place, and bade him strip.
Now, if these be Rokuro Kubi, they mean me no good;--so I shall be justified in following the instructions of the book."...
Moreover, it is well known that such goblins have been dwelling in the mountains of the province of Kai from very ancient time...
"Since my body has been moved, to rejoin it is not possible!
Therefore, although my house is only a wretched thatched hut, let me beg of you to come home with me at once.
To go near him while he is reciting would be difficult; and we cannot touch him so long as he is praying.
In the book Nan ho i butsu shi it is written that certain red characters can always be found upon the nape of the neck of a real Rokuro Kubi.
Bring the head here!"
This place has a bad name,--a very bad name.
This woodcutter halted on seeing Kwairyo lying down, and, after a moment of silent observation, said to him in a tone of great surprise:--
Until a late hour he continued to read and pray: then he opened a little window in his little sleeping room, to take a last look at the landscape before lying down.
Perhaps you formerly belonged to one of the upper classes?"
What is the use of joking?"
Some one of you go to the house and see what the fellow is doing."
Kwairyo wondered that persons so poor, and dwelling in such a solitude, should be aware of the polite forms of greeting.
Well, Sir priest, I suppose we are of the same calling; and I must say that I admire you!...
But when they perceived him at the back door all screamed, "The priest! the priest!"--and fled, through the other doorway, out into the woods.
In the way of food, I have nothing to offer you; but there is a roof at least, and you can sleep under it without risk."
And I have not committed any crime.
After which he gathered together his few belongings, and leisurely descended the mountain to continue his journey.
It is a goblin's head.
"What a nice priest you are!" exclaimed the robber.
For one instant he stood bewildered,--imagining a crime.
There are the characters: you can see for yourselves that they have not been painted.
They bowed low to the priest, and greeted him in the most respectful manner.
I used to be in the service of a daimyo; and my rank in that service was not inconsiderable.
Then said the elder:--
"You have guessed rightly, Sir," Kwairyo responded.
So the head, still holding in its teeth the koromo that had been stripped from Kwairyo's shoulders, was put before the judges.
There are haunters about here,--many of them.
In the same moment the head of the aruji, followed by the other four heads, sprang at Kwairyo.
This is the head of a Rokuro Kubi.
And Kwairyo immediately found himself among friends instead of judges,--friends anxious to prove their admiration by fraternal kindness.
For that age was an age of violence and disorder; and upon the highways there was no security for the solitary traveler, even if he happened to be a priest.
He heard voices talking in the grove; and he went in the direction of the voices,--stealing from shadow to shadow, until he reached a good hiding place.
They judged him to be a hardened criminal, and his story an insult to their intelligence.
Smiling, the woodcutter answered:--
His body was iron; and he never troubled himself about dews or rain or frost or snow.
When Kwairyo left Suwa, he was as happy as any priest is permitted to be in this transitory world.
Eastward the sky was brightening; day was about to dawn; and Kwairyo knew that the power of the goblins was limited to the hours of darkness.
On the contrary, the line of leverance was smooth as the line at which a falling leaf detaches itself from the stem...
So he cut off his hair, and became a traveling priest,--taking the Buddhist name of Kwairyo.
At the mention of that name, a murmur of admiration filled the court room; for there were many present who remembered it.
This aged officer had made no remark during the trial; but, after having heard the opinion of his colleagues, he rose up, and said:--
You can have my robe in exchange for your koromo; and I will give you five ryo for the head."
Kwairyo, however, as quickly gripped the head by its topknot, and repeatedly struck it.
The night was beautiful: there was no cloud in the sky: there was no wind; and the strong moonlight threw down sharp black shadows of foliage, and glittered on the dews of the garden.
But in another moment he perceived that there was no blood, and that the headless necks did not look as if they had been cut.
Another head-the head of a young woman-immediately rose up and flitted to the house, lightly as a bat.
Therefore, without further questioning, they decided to order his immediate execution,--all of them except one, a very old man.
So he resigned himself to pass the night under the stars; and having found a suitable grassy spot, by the roadside, he lay down there, and prepared to sleep.
But its teeth still held the sleeve; and, for all his great strength, Kwairyo could not force open the jaws.
"From the kindness of your speech, and from the very polite welcome given me by your household, I imagine that you have not always been a woodcutter.
And he proceeded to relate the whole of the adventure,--bursting into another hearty laugh as he told of his encounter with the five heads.
After a few minutes it came back, and cried out huskily, in a tone of great alarm:--
When he had done so, the hermit humbly bowed down before him, exclaiming:--"Ah!
And if you happen to hear or see anything strange during our absence, please tell us of the matter when we return in the morning."
But I am sorry that you did not tell me of your father's death when I came;--for, though I was a little tired, I certainly was not so tired that I should have found difficulty in doing my duty as a priest.
The priest recited the service, and performed the funeral ceremonies,--after which he entered into meditation.
"The priest who yesterday evening directed me to this village," answered Muso.
Since then I have been obliged to feed upon the corpses of the people who die in this district: every one of them I must devour in the way that you saw last night...
Forty or fifty persons were assembled in the principal apartment, at the moment of Muso's arrival; but he was shown into a small separate room, where he was promptly supplied with food and bedding.
"Reverend Sir, there is no priest and there is no anjitsu on the hill. For the time of many generations there has not been any resident priest in this neighborhood."
But the master of the house said to Muso:--
But, when the hush of the night was at its deepest, there noiselessly entered a Shape, vague and vast; and in the same moment Muso found himself without power to move or speak.
"What priest?" the young man asked.
We make the proper offerings and prayers;--then we go away, leaving the corpse alone.
I do not know what you mean by your words about the danger of staying here alone; but I am not afraid of ghosts or demons: therefore please to feel no anxiety on my account."
"A long, long time ago, I was a priest in this desolate region.
No sooner had the hermit uttered this petition than he disappeared; and the hermitage also disappeared at the same instant.
But the law of our village, as I told you last evening, obliges us to quit our houses after a death has taken place, and to leave the corpse alone.
I am ashamed only that you should have seen me in my real shape,--for it was I who devoured the corpse and the offerings last night before your eyes...
The usual offerings had been set before the corpse; and a small Buddhist lamp-tomyo-was burning.
As it is, I shall perform the service after you have gone away; and I shall stay by the body until morning.
By the rule of our village, none of us can stay here after midnight.
Then the other members of the family, and the folk assembled in the adjoining room, having been told of the priest's kind promises, came to thank him,--after which the master of the house said:--
Muso made answer:--
All then left the house, except the priest, who went to the room where the dead body was lying.
But perhaps, as you are a priest, you have no fear of demons or evil spirits; and, if you are not afraid of being left alone with the body, you will be very welcome to the use of this poor house. However, I must tell you that nobody, except a priest, would dare to remain here tonight."
"You need not be ashamed for having refused me shelter," said Muso. "You directed me to the village yonder, where I was very kindly treated; and I thank you for that favor.
He saw that Shape lift the corpse, as with hands, devour it, more quickly than a cat devours a rat,--beginning at the head, and eating everything: the hair and the bones and even the shroud.
I am ashamed!--I am very much ashamed!--I am exceedingly ashamed!"
Muso found his way to the hamlet, which consisted of less than a dozen farm cottages; and he was kindly received at the dwelling of the headman.
"What you have told us, reverend Sir, agrees with what has been said about this matter from ancient time."
"I called at his anjitsu on the hill yonder.
Then it went away, as mysteriously as it had come.
So, in that time, the bodies of the mountain folk who died used to be brought here,--sometimes from great distances,--in order that I might repeat over them the holy service.
The young man appeared to be rejoiced by these assurances, and expressed his gratitude in fitting words.
Presently the sliding screens were gently pushed apart; and a young man, carrying a lighted lantern, entered the room, respectfully saluted him, and said:--
All in turn saluted him; and when they had entered, and looked about the room, no one expressed any surprise at the disappearance of the dead body and the offerings.
We beg, kind Sir, that you will take every care of your honorable body, while we are unable to attend upon you.
We can find you good lodging in the other village.
No person seemed to be surprised by his narration; and the master of the house observed:--
Whenever it is obeyed, we find that the corpse and the offerings disappear during our absence. Perhaps you have seen the cause."
"Does not the priest on the hill sometimes perform the funeral service for your dead?"
Strange things always happen in the house where a corpse has thus been left: so we think that it will be better for you to come away with us.
"Now, reverend Sir, much as we regret to leave you alone, we must bid you farewell.
Muso then inquired:--
Whenever this law has been broken, heretofore, some great misfortune has followed.
And the monstrous Thing, having thus consumed the body, turned to the offerings, and ate them also.
For a long time he wandered about helplessly; and he was beginning to despair of finding shelter for the night, when he perceived, on the top of a hill lighted by the last rays of the sun, one of those little hermitages, called anjitsu, which are built for solitary priests.
But after having bidden them farewell, and obtained all necessary information as to his road, he determined to look again for the hermitage on the hill, and so to ascertain whether he had really been deceived.
When the villagers returned next morning, they found the priest awaiting them at the door of the headman's dwelling.
Gladly we would have stayed with you, if it had been possible.
The listeners looked at each other, as in astonishment; and, after a moment of silence, the master of the house said:--
Had you told me, I could have performed the service before your departure.
Muso said nothing more on the subject; for it was evident that his kind hosts supposed him to have been deluded by some goblin.
It seemed to be in ruinous condition; but he hastened to it eagerly, and found that it was inhabited by an aged priest, from whom he begged the favor of a night's lodging.
This the old man harshly refused; but he directed Muso to a certain hamlet, in the valley adjoining where lodging and food could be obtained.
There was no other priest for many leagues around.
But I repeated the service and performed the rites only as a matter of business;--I thought only of the food and the clothes that my sacred profession enabled me to gain.
He refused me lodging, but told me the way here."
"Bill, look me in the eye and tell me, man to man, that you're a liar!" He added: "Can you ever be happy without her, man?"
"D'you know why she looked back over her shoulder?"
It was vastly wearying work.
When Gregg opened the door Ronicky Doone blinked and drew in a deep breath at the sight of the poor fellow's face.
"Shake!" said Ronicky Doone.
Ain't that something done?
We've done our hunting pretty near as well as we could. If we don't land her this trip, I'm about ready to give up."
The nose was hooked like the nose of a bird of prey; the eyes were long and slanting like those of an Oriental.
"Ain't there?
"'Sent my picture to!' she says and looks as if the ground had opened under her feet.
Here they took up the vigil.
Bill, what that girl told you didn't come out of her own head.
The face was thin, almost fleshless, so that the bony jaw stood out like the jaw of a death's head.
He's the one who's kept her in that house.
"It's proof that she ain't yonder," said Bill Gregg.
"It's ended," said Bill Gregg faintly.
"Go on back to sleep. I'll call you again if anything happens."
I only had enough left to say: 'The gent that was writing those papers to the correspondence school to you from the West, the one you sent your picture to and-'
"I'll smash every bone in his ugly head."
Bill Gregg groaned.
It's just about our last chance, Bill.
There could be no shadow of a doubt about it.
When you turned your back on her she looked like she'd run after you and try to explain.
From the back it looked down on the lights glimmering on the black East River and across to the flare of Brooklyn; to the left the whole arc of the Fifty ninth Street Bridge was exposed.
Still he pleaded, and still she ordered him away.
And so swift was that descent that, when the girl, idling down the steps across the street, came onto the sidewalk, Bill Gregg rushed out from the other side and ran toward her.
"No, Bill.
After you've done all that are you going to give up now?
Why, Bill, look at the way things have gone!
"Just for the reason I told you."
"That took the wind out of me.
"Sure!
One week was decided on as a fair test.
What a face it was!
You're going to buck up and go ahead full steam.
Bill Gregg smiled sourly.
Ronicky sighed.
Ain't that right?
"That's not the one. She's all different, a pile different, Ronicky."
If this were in her mind, however, it vanished instantly.
Not you, Bill!
If, at the end of that time, Caroline Smith did not come out of the house across the street they could conclude that she did not stay there.
'I don't remember any such name!'
When he called out softly, the sound brought Gregg, with one long leap out of the chair where he was sleeping, to the window.
"Grinning?" asked Bill Gregg, grinding his teeth and starting from his chair.
Every minute."
She closed the door behind her and, walking to the top of the steps, paused there and looked up and down the street.
It come out of the head of the gent across the way.
'You're mad!' she says.
That's where you and me don't agree!
"Was the skunk laughing at me?"
Not a sign of Caroline Smith appeared even during the second day.
"There she is now!" he exclaimed.
Tell me what Bard has on him?"
"What time d'you want me to wake you up?"
"Hello, young feller."
"I don't suppose the old man described him before you started, maybe?"
"Ma's sick, a little, and didn't get up to day.
Nash sipped his coffee and waited.
"He says: 'What a little beauty!
In fact, he was known for it all around these parts.
D'you mind if I turn in on that bunk over there?"
It's the best hoss I've ever had.'
"No; he lost a hoss.
"'Lo, stranger."
He stretched out on the blankets and was instantly asleep.
What do you want to boot?'
The boy paused to remember and then with twinkling eyes he mimicked: "'That's very good of you, sir, but I'll only stop to make a trade with you-this horse and some cash to boot for a durable mount out of your corral.
"Never mind; I wake up automatic.
"But a sure goer, eh?"
"Let me in on the joke, son."
I'll tend to that."
I got a dollar here that'll buy you a pretty good store knife."
"I don't suppose you know, eh?" queried Logan ironically.
Which maybe you sort of gather that he had to keep on performin', because the tenderfoot was still in the saddle.
"Where's the folks?" he asked.
I'm on my way to the A Circle y"
On the mountain desert one does not draw out a narrator with questions.
Logan went on patiently: "I knew something was wrong when Drew was here yesterday but I didn't think it was as bad as this."
"Never heard the name before.
But you're lookin' sort of sleepy, stranger?"
He don't fool around with no pauses.
"And he counts it out in pa's hand.
I could ride him; anybody could ride him.
There is a south trail, only it takes about three days to get to Eldara."
THE FIRST DAY
"Maybe you want to pay me?" he suggested fiercely.
Did he rustle a couple of your sheep?"
"Nothin'.
"Yep."
"The minute he seen that he stopped fightin' and started off at a gallop the way the tenderfoot wanted him to go, which was over there.
Certainly the choice of Nash was well made.
"No, you won't put him up.
"When rocks turn into ham and eggs I'll trust you, Steve.
Come out short at poker lately?"
"Maybe you think we're squatters that run a hotel?"
"Speakin' man to man, son, I didn't think that, but I thought I'd sort of feel my way."
"What's he sore about?
This with crackers, formed the meal. He watched Nash eat for a moment of solemn silence and then the foreman looked up to catch a meditative chuckle from the youngster.
But I can cook you up some chow."
I'll tell you what I done to Bard, anyway.
You know that.
"Listen; I'm all for old man Drew.
Having made sure that his mount was not "off his feed," Nash rolled a cigarette and strolled back to the house with the boy.
I told him; sure I did.
Who's he?"
"All right son.
"That's damn queer.
"That's it."
"Never better.
"Maybe not, but the point is I didn't see it.
Logan considered the other with a sardonic smile.
They look all right; they sound all right; but they don't mean nothin'.
The boy flushed so red that by contrast his straw coloured hair seemed positively white.
"Maybe.
"'All right,' says the tenderfoot, 'here's the money.'
"He's what you call an eddicated bucker.
"Bard?
"Maybe you think that interests me.
It don't."
"It was the best horse pa ever had, too.
Mile after mile of the rough trail fell behind him, and still the pony shambled along at a loose trot or a swinging canter; the steep upgrades it took at a steady jog and where the slopes pitched sharply down, it wound among the rocks with a faultless sureness of foot.
So he came in exactly that way, like a robber, but really only to keep a tryst with his lady love?
"Certainly," said the other, bowing.
I suppose ruth has filled your head with a lot of rot about what a terrible fellow I am.
"Meaning that I'm liable to put an end to your stay?"
"Once we're outside of the house, Mark," said Ronicky Doone, "I don't ask no favors.
"We've shaken hands," he admitted slowly, as though just realizing the full extent of the meaning of that act.
It seems I've made an ass of myself, but I'll try to make up for it.
That brought a start from john Mark and a flash of eagerness, but he repressed the idea, after a single glance at the girl.
"The whole lot of it," said Ronicky, "though I wasn't playing my hand at eavesdropping.
"The basilisk, eh?" asked john Mark.
"Maybe!"
"Yes, I have a curious stock of useless information."
"Right to this room!"
You smiled so much, in fact, that he followed you and found that you had come here.
ruth Tolliver did not cry out, but every muscle in her face and body seemed to contract, as if she were preparing herself for the explosion.
"And what do you expect?"
"Ah!" murmured the man of the sneer.
I told you!" said the man of the sneer, with satisfaction.
"An amateur-a rank amateur!
"I'm Doone-some call me Ronicky Doone."
"I can show you the tracks."
"I'm glad to know you, Ronicky Doone.
He knew every line in that sharp profile.
"Go ahead," said the leader.
Had the clever devil guessed at the truth so easily?
"The gun, partner."
I've been here for some time.
A regular Apollo, my dear ruth."
We're safe to the doors of the house; the minute we step into the street, you're free to do anything you want to get either of us. Will you shake on that?"
"Western," he said at last, "decidedly Western.
Is that square?"
It was."
"Tush, tush!
Chapter Twelve
In that case-"
I am, as you see, a very quiet and ordinary sort."
Do I gather the drift of the story fairly well? Finally you have him worked up to the right pitch.
But I don't use poison, and I don't kill with mysterious X rays.
He was brought up with a shock by the sight of Ronicky's big Colt, held at the hip and covering him with absolute certainty.
"I should have guessed.
"But he left that room again and came down the hall."
This Caroline Smith may be a person of great value to me."
The time had almost come for one desperate attempt to escape, and he was ready to shoot to kill.
So step light, and step quick when I talk."
If you have to talk to her, why not do the talking here?"
"We already knew he'd gone there."
"Ah?" In spite of himself the face of john Mark wrinkled with pain and suspicious rage.
"Let me hear the whole truth."
Did he get coal dust on his shoes?"
"Let me help you.
"But you can't expect me to assent to that?"
"You know the name, eh?"
It was somebody you met somewhere-on the train, perhaps, and you couldn't help smiling at him, eh?
Is that right?
"Only one: I'm acting as his agent."
"Well," said Ronicky, "we've shaken hands, and now you can do what you please!
"And, if you couldn't get the girl-but see how absurd the whole thing is, Ronicky Doone!
Relief, wonder, and even a gleam of outright happiness shot into the eyes of john Mark.
"That dropped him into the coal bin.
She made a vague gesture of denial.
Ronicky Doone, taken utterly by surprise, was at a great disadvantage.
Go back and tell them to hunt some more.
Where did john Mark get his sudden strength?
"I have no doubt she is, but I got a good argument."
"As much as that?
You found him; he confessed why he was here; you took pity on him-and-" He brushed a hand across his forehead and was instantly himself, calm and cool.
"That is-"
"You just oblige me, partner," he replied in his own soft voice.
"What do you think about it?"
"I figure she'd think too much about you all the time."
A moment of pause had come, a pause which, in the imagination of Ronicky, was filled with the approach of both the men toward the door of the closet.
"Now," said the man of the sneer, "tell me the whole of it, ruth."
At the same time a flush of excitement and fierceness passed over the face of john Mark.
"Right; and he didn't have sense enough to wipe it off."
"Up the stairs to the kitchen and down the hall and up to Harry's room."
"You send for Caroline Smith; I'm to do the persuading to get her out of the house.
"Are you staying long in the East, my friend?"
I imagine that name fits you. Now tell me the story of why you came to this house; of course it wasn't to see a girl!"
Let your men come on.
The man of the sneer looked him over leisurely.
Now he pushed it open and stepped out.
"And why?
"It was down in the cellar that we found the first tracks.
I couldn't help hearing you, partner."
Go up to the attic and search there.
"You're wrong!
You came for that?" Suddenly he laughed heartily, but there was a tremor of emotion in that laughter.
"Well, you are going to persuade her to go to Bill Gregg?"
"By the way, my name is john Mark."
The only way he could get in was by stealth.
The man of the sneer laughed unpleasantly.
"Tush," he broke in as smoothly as ever.
Stand right where you are."
I send for the girl; I request her to go down with you to the street and take a walk, because you wish to talk to her. Heavens, man, I can't persuade her to go with a stranger at night! Surely you see that!"
"And where did it lead?"
Now what about Caroline?
Ronicky set his teeth.
He turned back to Ronicky Doone.
"Yes.
"I-I-" stammered the girl, and she could say no more.
For a moment the leader hesitated, then his fingers closed over the extended hand of Ronicky Doone and clamped down on them like so many steel wires contracting.
"I ask your pardon, my dear," said john Mark to ruth.
"john--" began ruth Tolliver, her voice shaking.
A pretty story, a true romance!
Ronicky Doone smiled again.
"I'd kill you like a snake, stranger, which I mostly think you are.
"You followed his trail?"
"Yes," said the girl unevenly.
"And, when you're on the streets with the girl, do you suppose I'll rest idle and let you walk away with her?"
"Go on," the leader was repeating.
I lost the paper when I was tryin' to get through them fellers downstairs.
Good bye, Dick!"
In the week before they sailed for England he did many curious things.
He poured it all forth as if in one sentence.
The interview with Dick was quite exciting.
"Thank you!
But at least he understood, after a few conversations with mr Havisham, that he could gratify all his nearest wishes, and he proceeded to gratify them with a simplicity and delight which caused mr Havisham much diversion.
The people on the wharf began to shout to their friends, and the people on the steamer shouted back:
When his young friend brought to him in triumph the parting gift of a gold watch and chain, mr Hobbs found it difficult to acknowledge it properly.
Little Lord Fauntleroy leaned forward and waved the red handkerchief.
He came up to Cedric quite breathless.
Dick had just been having a great deal of trouble with Jake, and was in low spirits when they saw him.
He laid the case on his stout knee, and blew his nose violently several times.
There was a great straining and creaking and confusion.
Good bye, old fellow!" Every one seemed to be saying, "Don't forget us.
Good bye!
"Good bye!
I hope you'll come to see me sometime.
Cedric held the handkerchief in his hand.
I'm sorry I'm going away to leave you, but perhaps I shall come back again when I'm an earl.
They didn't want to let me up. It's a hankercher."
It seemed almost impossible for him to realize that there was scarcely anything he might wish to do which he could not do easily; in fact, I think it may be said that he did not fully realize it at all.
It was Dick.
three
A bell rang, and he made a leap away before Cedric had time to speak.
He stood on the wharf and waved his cap.
At last all the preparations were complete; the day came when the trunks were taken to the steamer, and the hour arrived when the carriage stood at the door.
Gloom had settled upon mr Hobbs; he was much depressed in spirits.
Trade's been prime!
His mamma had been shut up in her room for some time; when she came down the stairs, her eyes looked large and wet, and her sweet mouth was trembling.
mr Hobbs blew his nose very loudly again.
I didn't think I was going to like it myself, but I like it better now I'm used to it.
And I wish you'd write to me, because we were always good friends.
And if you write to me, here's where you must send your letter." And he gave him a slip of paper.
"I shouldn't forget you, whoever I was among," answered his lordship. "I've spent my happiest hours with you; at least, some of my happiest hours.
"For I have to go to England and be a lord," explained Cedric, sweet temperedly.
"Once, when I fell down and cut my knee, she gave me an apple for nothing.
He was not an educated boot black, and he would have found it difficult to tell what he felt just then if he had tried; perhaps that was why he didn't try, and only winked his eyes and swallowed a lump in his throat.
"Good bye, Dick!" he shouted, lustily.
"Yes-yes," she answered, in a low, sweet voice.
The one who is the Earl now, he's my grandpapa; and he wants me to do anything I like.
"Good bye!" he panted.
When this you see, remember me.' I don't want you to forget me."
The statement that his old friend had become a lord, and was in danger of being an earl if he lived long enough, caused Dick to so open his eyes and mouth, and start, that his cap fell off.
And then they went into the carriage and Cedric sat very close to her, and as she looked back out of the window, he looked at her and stroked her hand and held it close.
"We liked this little house, Dearest, didn't we?" he said.
Write when you get to Liverpool.
Good bye! Good bye!"
'From his oldest friend, Lord Fauntleroy, to mr Hobbs.
"I've run all the way," he said.
He could not believe in his good luck any more easily than the apple woman of ancient lineage could believe in hers; he walked about like a boot black in a dream; he stared at his young benefactor and felt as if he might wake up at any moment.
Then he winked his eyes again.
"There's something written on it," said Cedric,--"inside the case. I told the man myself what to say.
Dick winked his eyes also, and yet they looked rather moist about the lashes.
He knew something made them both sorry, though he scarcely knew what it was; but one tender little thought rose to his lips.
I'm sure my grandpapa would be very much pleased.
This plainly embarrassed his lordship a little, but he bore himself bravely.
You know you always remember people who are kind to you."
I bought this for ye out o' what I made yesterday.
Perhaps he'll write and ask you, when I tell him about you.
Some one was hurriedly forcing his way through this group and coming toward him.
He's very kind, if he IS an earl; and he sent me a lot of money by mr Havisham, and I've brought some to you to buy Jake out."
When he picked it up, he uttered a rather singular exclamation.
I believe its a put up job and them thats done it ought to be looked after sharp.
"SILAS HOBBS."
"This here calls for lawyers."
He had a shabby office near Dick's stand, and every morning Dick blacked his boots for him, and quite often they were not exactly water tight, but he always had a friendly word or a joke for Dick.
"Done it!" cried Dick, with disgust.
Fine young woman, too,--lots of hair,--though she seems to be raising rather a row.
That's what you look at!
thirteen
Professor Dick Tipton had always been a sharp boy, and earning his living in the streets of a big city had made him still sharper.
One said he was no relation to the Earl of Dorincourt at all, but was a small impostor who had sold newspapers and slept in the streets of New York before his mother imposed upon the family lawyer, who came to America to look for the Earl's heir.
"What has paralyzed you?"
The boy was out of breath with running; so much out of breath, in fact, that he could scarcely speak as he threw the paper down on the counter.
"Her!" said Dick.
"Hello!" exclaimed mr Hobbs.
And what I write to say is two things.
"Mother of Claimant (Lady Fauntleroy)."
And actually, before the sun went down, two letters had been written and sent in two different directions-one speeding out of New York harbor on a mail steamer on its way to England, and the other on a train carrying letters and passengers bound for California.
Im going to look this thing up.
You ought to become familiar with the nobility and gentry, Dick.
So no more at present
"Look at it!" panted Dick.
The story was too interesting to be passed over lightly, and it was talked of a great deal.
And leaving the store in the care of a substitute, he struggled into his coat and marched down town with Dick, and the two presented themselves with their romantic story in mr Harrison's office, much to that young man's astonishment.
And in less than five minutes from that time he was tearing through the streets on his way to mr Hobbs and the corner store.
The very next morning, one of Dick's customers was rather surprised. He was a young lawyer just beginning practice-as poor as a very young lawyer can possibly be, but a bright, energetic young fellow, with sharp wit and a good temper.
Let's ax him what we'd better do.
mr Hobbs could scarcely believe the evidence of his senses when he looked across the counter and saw Dick rush in with the paper in his hand.
Dick really did look as if something tremendous had happened.
mr Hobbs was almost overwhelmed by his sense of responsibility, and Dick was all alive and full of energy.
"At Newport?
And after the store was closed that evening, mr Hobbs and Dick sat in the back room and talked together until midnight.
That particular morning, when he put his foot on the rest, he had an illustrated paper in his hand-an enterprising paper, with pictures in it of conspicuous people and things.
The pictures he spoke of were on the front page, and Dick was staring at one of them with his eyes and mouth open, and his sharp face almost pale with excitement.
"What's to pay, Dick?" said the young man.
OF course, as soon as the story of Lord Fauntleroy and the difficulties of the Earl of Dorincourt were discussed in the English newspapers, they were discussed in the American newspapers.
He pointed to the picture, under which was written:
There were so many versions of it that it would have been an edifying thing to buy all the papers and compare them.
"Here's a paper for you, Dick," he said; "you can look it over when you drop in at Delmonico's for your breakfast.
But there really was nothing they could do but each write a letter to Cedric, containing assurances of their friendship and sympathy.
"Look at that woman in the picture!
The first persons to be written to are Dick's brother and the Earl of Dorincourt's family lawyer."
Blest if I didn't like that little feller fust rate."
"I know her!
He had just finished looking it over, and when the last boot was polished, he handed it over to the boy.
mr Hobbs dropped into his seat.
"Where did you meet her, Dick?" he said.
mr Hobbs was immensely impressed by this suggestion and Dick's business capacity.
"DICK."
It's BEN'S boy,--the little chap she hit when she let fly that plate at me."
"yours truly,
They found out what an important personage an Earl of Dorincourt was, and what a magnificent income he possessed, and how many estates he owned, and how stately and beautiful was the Castle in which he lived; and the more they learned, the more excited they became.
mr Hobbs read so much about it that he became quite bewildered.
They wrote those letters as soon as they could after receiving the news; and after having written them, they handed them over to each other to be read.
"That's so!" he replied.
"And," said mr Hobbs, "say what your time's worth a' hour and look into this thing thorough, and I'LL pay the damage,--Silas Hobbs, corner of Blank street, Vegetables and Fancy Groceries."
Hello!
"Well," said mr Harrison, "it will be a big thing if it turns out all right, and it will be almost as big a thing for me as for Lord Fauntleroy; and, at any rate, no harm can be done by investigating. It appears there has been some dubiousness about the child.
Dick actually forgot to grin.
"Never mind," he said.
That you are a princess does not abash me, but that you are you is enough to make me doubt my sanity as I ask you, my princess, to be mine."
Kill her!"
"Was there ever such a man!" she exclaimed.
At the foot of the throne these two parties separated and halted, facing each other at opposite sides of the aisle.
Can it be that all Earth men are as you? Alone, a stranger, hunted, threatened, persecuted, you have done in a few short months what in all the past ages of Barsoom no man has ever done: joined together the wild hordes of the sea bottoms and brought them to fight as allies of a red Martian people."
I led them to the palace walls, which I negotiated easily without assistance.
The object of the ceremony was clear to me; in another moment Dejah Thoris would be joined forever to the Prince of Zodanga.
These two stopped at the foot of the throne, facing Than Kosis.
Guided by the sound, we soon found him helpless in a dark recess.
As the great gate where I stood swung open my fifty Tharks, headed by Tars Tarkas himself, rode in upon their mighty thoats.
"The answer is easy, Dejah Thoris," I replied smiling.
Thrusting Sab Than headlong from the platform, I drew Dejah Thoris to my side.
He was overjoyed at seeing me, and to know the meaning of the fight, faint echoes of which had reached his prison cell.
"It was not I who did it, it was love, love for Dejah Thoris, a power that would work greater miracles than this you have seen."
The jailers had all left to join the fighters in the throne room, so we searched the labyrinthine prison without opposition.
Then came more dignitaries, and the officers of the palace and of the army, and finally two figures entirely muffled in scarlet silk, so that not a feature of either was discernible.
The woman!
And thus in the midst of a city of wild conflict, filled with the alarms of war; with death and destruction reaping their terrible harvest around her, did Dejah Thoris, Princess of Helium, true daughter of Mars, the God of War, promise herself in marriage to john Carter, Gentleman of Virginia.
"Look!"
"By the dead hands at my throat but he shall die, Bar Comas.
"He will die as Bar Comas, your jeddak, sees fit, if at all," replied the young ruler, with emphasis and dignity.
Bar Comas was stone dead, and only the most herculean efforts on the part of Dak Kova's females saved him from the fate he deserved.
As he stooped to place my food upon the ground I swung the chain above my head and crashed the links with all my strength upon his skull.
I was lying among a pile of sleeping silks and furs in the corner of a small room in which were several green warriors, and bending over me was an ancient and ugly female.
The dead jeddak's hands and head were removed to be added to the ornaments of his conqueror, and then his women cremated what remained, amid wild and terrible laughter.
Just before dark we reached the main body of troops shortly after they had made camp for the night.
Victor and vanquished rolled limp and lifeless upon the moss, a huge mass of torn and bloody flesh.
I was strapped securely to as wild and unmanageable a thoat as I had ever seen, and, with a mounted warrior on either side to prevent the beast from bolting, we rode forth at a furious pace in pursuit of the column.
Without a sound he slipped to the floor, stone dead.
Slowly they approached and slowly I shrank back from the awful horror of them.
Like the jed who had brought me, he was frightfully scarred, and also decorated with the breastplate of human skulls and dried dead hands which seemed to mark all the greater warriors among the Warhoons, as well as to indicate their awful ferocity, which greatly transcends even that of the Tharks.
They are a smaller horde than the Tharks but much more ferocious.
The jeddak, Bar Comas, who was comparatively young, was the object of the fierce and jealous hatred of his old lieutenant, Dak Kova, the jed who had captured me, and I could not but note the almost studied efforts which the latter made to affront his superior.
He was a huge fellow, terribly scarred about the face and chest, and with one broken tusk and a missing ear.
Food was brought me at intervals but owing to the utter darkness of the place I do not know whether I lay there days, or weeks, or months.
"'tis well," replied the one so addressed, rising and approaching my couch, "he should render rare sport for the great games."
The injuries to Dak Kova had delayed the march so greatly that it was decided to give up the expedition, which was a raid upon a small Thark community in retaliation for the destruction of the incubator, until after the great games, and the entire body of warriors, ten thousand in number, turned back toward Warhoon.
Three days later he walked without assistance to the body of Bar Comas which, by custom, had not been moved from where it fell, and placing his foot upon the neck of his erstwhile ruler he assumed the title of Jeddak of Warhoon.
As I opened my eyes she turned to one of the warriors, saying,
His reference to the great games of which I had heard so much while among the Tharks convinced me that I had but jumped from purgatory into gehenna.
"If at all?" roared Dak Kova.
No sound reached me from the world above and no word would my jailer vouchsafe when my food was brought to me, although I at first bombarded him with questions.
Bar Comas had much the better of the battle as he was stronger, quicker and more intelligent.
"He will live, O Jed."
Bar Comas eyed the defiant and insubordinate chieftain for an instant, his expression one of haughty, fearless contempt and hate, and then without drawing a weapon and without uttering a word he hurled himself at the throat of his defamer.
Strapped on either breast were human skulls and depending from these a number of dried human hands.
Finally all the hatred and maniacal loathing for these awful creatures who had placed me in this horrible place was centered by my tottering reason upon this single emissary who represented to me the entire horde of Warhoons.
"I have brought a strange creature wearing the metal of a Thark whom it is my pleasure to have battle with a wild thoat at the great games."
CHAPTER eighteen
As I was groping to remove the chain from about my victim's neck I glanced up into the darkness to see six pairs of gleaming eyes fixed, unwinking, upon me.
Presently they came in contact with a small chain at the end of which dangled a number of keys.
After a few more words with the female, during which she assured him that I was now fully fit to travel, the jed ordered that we mount and ride after the main column.
My introduction to these cruel and bloodthirsty people was but an index to the scenes I witnessed almost daily while with them.
A FIGHT THAT WON FRIENDS
They seemed to be deep in argument, and finally one of them addressed me, but remembering my ignorance of his language turned back to Tars Tarkas, who, with a word and gesture, gave some command to the fellow and turned to follow us from the room.
CHAPTER six
The bullet striking the wooden casing of the window exploded, blowing a hole completely through the wood and masonry.
It is true I held the cudgel, but what could I do with it against his four great arms?
She, on the contrary, was sober with apparent solicitude and, as soon as I had finished the monster, rushed to me and carefully examined my body for possible wounds or injuries.
He lay gasping upon the floor of the chamber, his great eyes fastened upon me in what seemed a pitiful appeal for protection.
I then knelt down beside the fearsome looking thing, and raising it to its feet motioned for it to follow me.
Satisfying herself that I had come off unscathed she smiled quietly, and, taking my hand, started toward the door of the chamber.
Evidently devoid of all the finer sentiments of friendship, love, or affection, these people fairly worship physical prowess and bravery, and nothing is too good for the object of their adoration as long as he maintains his position by repeated examples of his skill, strength, and courage.
As I delivered the blow a low laugh rang out behind me, and, turning, I beheld Tars Tarkas, Sola, and three or four warriors standing in the doorway of the chamber.
Leaping over his prostrate body, I seized the cudgel and finished the monster before he could regain his feet.
Presently I saw the great eyes of my beast bulging completely from their sockets and blood flowing from its nostrils. That he was weakening perceptibly was evident, but so also was the ape, whose struggles were growing momentarily less.
With a shriek of fear the ape which held me leaped through the open window, but its mate closed in a terrific death struggle with my preserver, which was nothing less than my faithful watch thing; I cannot bring myself to call so hideous a creature a dog.
The warrior whose gun I had struck up looked enquiringly at Tars Tarkas, but the latter signed that I be left to my own devices, and so we returned to the plaza with my great beast following close at heel, and Sola grasping me tightly by the arm.
"As if he were the only father."
"That's true."
Here is their dialogue:
"So he is the father."
In the good humor of that winter of eighteen thirty three, Paris had disguised itself as Venice.
"Can you see the bride if you stoop down?"
"Yonder, in the first wedding cart, on our side."
It was impossible for the wedding carriages to go directly to Saint Paul.
"That don't matter.
"You must try to find out where that wedding party went to."
There the Carnival forms part of politics.
Do you want to delay, Marius?"
But what can be done about it?
At that point of the file there was a carriage load of maskers.
"I know."
"Well?"
"What old cove?"
"Yes."
A laughter that is too cynical to be frank.
"A sham wedding," retorted another.
"Or elsewhere."
Nero was a titanic lighterman.
The women sit on the men's laps.
"I'm hired."
This will prepare them for seeing a bit of the masquerade."
"I owe my fishwife day to the prefecture."
Let us proceed.
Here I'm concealed, no one knows that I'm here.
A pin in a hay mow!
There one lays one's finger on a mysterious affinity between public men and public women.
"All the same, that old fellow bothers me."
"Never mind, that old cove who has something the matter with his paw I know, and that I'm positive."
These fishwife vehicles, in which one feels one knows not what shadows, set the philosopher to thinking.
Now, we note this detail, for the pure satisfaction of being exact, it chanced that the sixteenth fell on Shrove Tuesday.
In eighteen thirty three, a hundred years ago, marriage was not conducted at a full trot.
"I can't go out otherwise than masked.
One of the invited guests observed that it was Shrove Tuesday, and that there would be a jam of vehicles.--"Why?" asked m Gillenormand-"Because of the maskers."--"Capital," said the grandfather, "let us go that way.
The night of the sixteenth to the seventeenth of February, eighteen thirty three, was a blessed night.
In truth, this laughter is suspicious.
Sometimes it does!"
"How the devil does he come to be one of the wedding party?"
"There's no bridegroom in that trap."
"We are the genuine article."
Twenty of them ride in a carriage intended for six.
They went by way of the boulevard.
These carriages, or to speak more correctly, these wagon loads of maskers are very familiar to Parisians.
"Let us marry, then," cried the grandfather.
You must try.
CHAPTER one-THE sixteenth OF FEBRUARY, eighteen thirty three
"no"
It rained that day, but there is always in the sky a tiny scrap of blue at the service of happiness, which lovers see, even when the rest of creation is under an umbrella.
It's so easy to find out a wedding party that passed through the street on a Shrove Tuesday, a week afterwards.
The accounts of Louis the eleventh. allot to the bailiff of the palace "twenty sous, Tournois, for three coaches of mascarades in the cross roads." In our day, these noisy heaps of creatures are accustomed to have themselves driven in some ancient cuckoo carriage, whose imperial they load down, or they overwhelm a hired landau, with its top thrown back, with their tumultuous groups.
"Not particularly."
"And what good does it do to know him?"
"Yes."
This carriage which has become colossal through its freight, has an air of conquest.
"What, daddy?"
The King has Roquelaure, the populace has the Merry Andrew.
"Where does that wedding come from?"
"Do the old fellows bother you?
Far away, above the throng of heads, their wild pyramid is visible.
"To find out where it goes, and what it is.
There is government therein.
"That's not the point at all.
Maskers abounded on the boulevard. In spite of the fact that it was raining at intervals, Merry Andrew, Pantaloon and Clown persisted.
Their aside was covered by the tumult and was lost in it.
The marriage took place, therefore, in accordance with this now superannuated fashion, at m Gillenormand's house.
In this gayety of Paris, England cracked her whip; Lord Seymour's post chaise, harassed by a nickname from the populace, passed with great noise.
The manner of marriage in eighteen thirty three was not the same as it is to day.
"What's that?"
Nearly at the same moment, the other file, which was proceeding towards the Madeleine, halted also.
"Say, now."
The day had been adorable.
It is charged with proving the Carnival to the Parisians.
"Where is it going then?"
The carriage load of masks caught sight of the wedding carriage containing the bridal party opposite them on the other side of the boulevard.
At the end of another minute, the carriage load of maskers had their hands full, the multitude set to yelling, which is the crowd's caress to masquerades; and the two maskers who had just spoken had to face the throng with their comrades, and did not find the entire repertory of projectiles of the fishmarkets too extensive to retort to the enormous verbal attacks of the populace.
Marius, still separated from his betrothed according to usage, did not come until the second.
"Well, what of that?"
Certain unhealthy festivals disaggregate the people and convert them into the populace.
These young folks are on the way to be married; they are about to enter the serious part of life.
It's Ash Wednesday.
She loved Nero.
"I can't quit the vehicle."
"There's one thing you ought to do."
Above its shadows heaven stood open.
"Well?"
One does not follow a pair of lovers to that extent, and one is accustomed to turn one's back on the drama as soon as it puts a wedding nosegay in its buttonhole.
BOOK SIXTH.--THE SLEEPLESS NIGHT
"What concern is that of mine?"
"If I leave the cart, the first inspector who gets his eye on me will arrest me.
"It's free.
"In the bride's trap."
Here goes for the sixteenth!
Wedding parties are at liberty."
"What?"
"Why not?"
"He's in the first carriage."
As the marriage was taking place under the regime of community of property, the papers had been simple.
"I tell you that he's the father."
We will not conduct the reader either to the mayor's office or to the church.
They cling to the seats, to the rumble, on the cheeks of the hood, on the shafts.
It had not been the grand festival dreamed by the grandfather, a fairy spectacle, with a confusion of cherubim and Cupids over the heads of the bridal pair, a marriage worthy to form the subject of a painting to be placed over a door; but it had been sweet and smiling.
They even bestride the carriage lamps.
From time to time, a hitch arose somewhere in the procession of vehicles; one or other of the two lateral files halted until the knot was disentangled; one carriage delayed sufficed to paralyze the whole line.
These be ribboned and be flowered tumbrils of mire are insulted and pardoned by the laughter of the public.
She only demands of her masters-when she has masters-one thing: "Paint me the mud." Rome was of the same mind.
They could not get ready before the sixteenth of February.
"Try to get a sight of the bride by stooping very low."
"Get off of our trap and spin that wedding."
The wedding carriages were in the file proceeding towards the Bastille, and skirting the right side of the Boulevard.
The gusts of rain had drenched the front of the vehicle, which was wide open; the breezes of February are not warm; as the fishwife, clad in a low necked gown, replied to the Spaniard, she shivered, laughed and coughed.
"What then?"
It was the wedding night of Marius and Cosette.
"No one can tell.
"Well, what?"
I run the risk of being nabbed.
Paris,--let us confess it-willingly allows infamy to furnish it with comedy.
And, being too far off to accost the wedding party, and fearing also, the rebuke of the police, the two maskers turned their eyes elsewhere.
On the preceding evening, Jean Valjean handed to Marius, in the presence of m Gillenormand, the five hundred and eighty four thousand francs.
You understand me, Azelma."
The sidewalks were overflowing with pedestrians and the windows with curious spectators.
If they were missing on a Shrove Tuesday, or at the Mid Lent, it would be taken in bad part, and people would say: "There's something behind that.
Everything which exists being a scattered Carnival, there is no longer any Carnival.
"I like that! that would be queer.
"Where it went?"
The tradition of carriage loads of maskers runs back to the most ancient days of the monarchy.
"Know him, if you want to."
They were obliged to alter their course, and the simplest way was to turn through the boulevard.
They stand, sit, lie, with their knees drawn up in a knot, and their legs hanging.
"I don't care a hang for old fellows, that I don't!"
But to morrow, there will be no more maskers.
"Shrove Tuesday!" exclaimed the grandfather, "so much the better.
Everything can be parodied, even parody.
The first wedding coach held Cosette and Aunt Gillenormand, m Gillenormand and Jean Valjean.
"Listen."
"Do you see that old cove?"
"I'm bought by the government for to day."
"And the bridegroom?"
"I can't."
Hurry up and jump down, trot, my girl, your legs are young."
But you are free."
"Unless it's the old fellow."
And populaces, like tyrants, require buffoons.
"Yes, I do."
The laughter of all is the accomplice of universal degradation.
"What for?"
Goodman Days of Yore might have been invited to it.
It was the same enchantment in two souls, tinged with voluptuousness in Marius, and with modesty in Cosette.
It is love.
To whom is this accorded?
Perfect happiness implies a mutual understanding with the angels. That dark little chamber has all heaven for its ceiling.
Is the Sancy diamond called the Sancy because it belonged to Harley de Sancy, or because it weighs six hundred carats?
"Father, are you satisfied?"
The night, yes; the shadows, no
Love is the only ecstasy.
Ask that demagogue of a Marius if he is not the slave of that little tyrant of a Cosette.
The evening was gay, lively and agreeable.
And of his own free will, too, the coward!
M. Gillenormand took his seat.
Yes, Marius, yes, Cosette, you are in the right.
Methusalem is a street arab beside Cupid.
There is no Robespierre who keeps his place but woman reigns.
And let it never rain in your household.
As far as I am concerned, I have no longer any political opinions; let all me be rich, that is to say, mirthful, and I confine myself to that."
Listen to me; I will give you a bit of advice: Adore each other.
There is no other pearl to be found in the shadowy folds of life.
Marius, triumphant and radiant, mounted side by side with Cosette the staircase up which he had been borne in a dying condition.
can people love each other too much? can people please each other too much?
Yes, love, woman, the kiss forms a circle from which I defy you to escape; and, for my own part, I should be only too happy to re-enter it.
Because it is a gewgaw.
That empty arm chair chilled the effusion of the wedding feast for a moment.
She caressed him with her smile.
There should be flashes of light athwart such houses.
Happiness desires that all the world should be happy.
This armchair is for you.
Ah! you are the nineteenth century?
She was in unison with Father Gillenormand; while he erected joy into aphorisms and maxims, she exhaled goodness like a perfume.
Down with the philosophers!
There, let not that displease you which we used to think in our day, when we were young folks.
I should like to stuff their philosophy down their gullets again.
"Sir," replied Basque, "I do, precisely.
I would like greatly to get married, if any one would have me.
My children, receive an old man's blessing."
At dessert, m Gillenormand, rising to his feet, with a glass of champagne in his hand-only half full so that the palsy of his eighty years might not cause an overflow,--proposed the health of the married pair.
The ocean is a rough Alcestis.
She looked at Marius, she looked at the crowd, she looked at the sky: it seemed as though she feared that she should wake up from her dream.
And then, an idea occurred to m Gillenormand.--"Pardieu, this armchair is empty. Come hither, Marius.
Love has the right to a long white beard.
Illumination as brilliant as the daylight is the necessary seasoning of a great joy.
I defy you to escape from that.
Wrath, tempest, claps of thunder, foam to the very ceiling.
And Cosette, nestling close to Marius, caressed his ear with an angelic whisper: "So it is true.
I, too, have had my dream, I, too, have meditated, I, too, have sighed; I, too, have had a moonlight soul.
They do not consent to be black.
Here we pause.
Marius was fighting six months ago; to day he is married. That is well.
This craft was discovered in the days of the terrestrial paradise.
My friends, long live women! I am old, they say; it's astonishing how much I feel in the mood to be young.
Cosette had never been more tender with Jean Valjean.
They danced a little, they laughed a great deal; it was an amiable wedding.
If there is no sun, one must be made.
To realize one's dream.
Jean Valjean began to laugh.
Her amazed and uneasy air added something indescribably enchanting to her beauty.
He was no longer there.
In fact, the women must always be loved.
No 'eighty nine for Eve.
There is no joy outside of these joys.
Such a day is an ineffable mixture of dream and of reality.
The soul enters into contemplation before that sanctuary where the celebration of love takes place.
A few moments later, Basque announced that dinner was served.
Cosette perceived Marius in the midst of a glory; Marius perceived Cosette on an altar.
Then they returned home to the Rue des Filles du Calvaire.
The other arm chair remained empty.
A woman enters on the scene, a planet rises; flat on your face!
But, if m Fauchelevent was absent, m Gillenormand was present, and the grandfather beamed for two.
I should like to go and listen to the bagpipes in the woods. Children who contrive to be beautiful and contented,--that intoxicates me.
Marius took Jean Valjean's place beside Cosette, and things fell out so that Cosette, who had, at first, been saddened by Jean Valjean's absence, ended by being satisfied with it.
If at that supreme hour, the wedded pair, dazzled with voluptuousness and believing themselves alone, were to listen, they would hear in their chamber a confused rustling of wings.
It is impossible that this sacred and fatal festival should not give off a celestial radiance to the infinite.
How good it is to have suffered!
What is the sun?
And, five minutes afterward, the whole table from one end to the other, was laughing with all the animation of forgetfulness.
Let us be happy without quibbling and quirking.
I do not make a pack of gyrations, I go straight to the mark, be happy.
These two creatures were resplendent.
Jean Valjean had seated himself on a chair in the drawing room, behind the door, the leaf of which folded back upon him in such a manner as to nearly conceal him.
Evil has no right to exist.
Which of you has seen the planet Venus, the coquette of the abyss, the Celimene of the ocean, rise in the infinite, calming all here below?
Saperlotte! the best way to adore God is to love one's wife.
Manage so that, when you are with each other, nothing shall be lacking to you, and that Cosette may be the sun for Marius, and that Marius may be the universe to Cosette.
Believe what I say to you.
You have filched the winning number in the lottery; you have gained the great prize, guard it well, keep it under lock and key, do not squander it, adore each other and snap your fingers at all the rest.
Something of that joy ascends to God. Where true marriage is, that is to say, where there is love, the ideal enters in.
The kingdom of Eve.
Philosophers say: 'Moderate your joys.' I say: 'Give rein to your joys.' Be as much smitten with each other as fiends.
And good sense cannot lie.
She set her sweet little foot, shod in white satin, on Marius' foot.
Marius glanced at Cosette's charming bare arm, and at the rosy things which were vaguely visible through the lace of her bodice, and Cosette, intercepting Marius' glance, blushed to her very hair.
One still has time before one to divine.
What is Adam?
Do not imagine that you have effected much change in the universe, because your trip gallant is called the cholera morbus, and because your pourree is called the cachuca.
There were flowers everywhere.
All at once, the clock struck.
In all creation, only the turtle doves are wise.
However, he was present in the person of Father Gillenormand.
That there should be any unhappy men is, in sooth, a disgrace to the azure of the sky.
"You shall not escape two sermons," he exclaimed.
Woman!
The grandfather's sovereign good humor gave the key note to the whole feast, and each person regulated his conduct on that almost centenarian cordiality.
And on that altar, and in that glory, the two apotheoses mingling, in the background, one knows not how, behind a cloud for Cosette, in a flash for Marius, there was the ideal thing, the real thing, the meeting of the kiss and the dream, the nuptial pillow. All the torments through which they had passed came back to them in intoxication.
In this way he does more good than the devil does him harm.
The oath of Henri the fourth. places sanctity somewhere between feasting and drunkenness.
Can one be too much alive, too happy? Moderate your joys.
Wisdom consists in jubilation.
"Yes," said Jean Valjean, "I am content!"
The delights of these two hearts overflowed upon the crowd, and inspired the passers by with cheerfulness.
Quite a number of old family friends of the Gillenormand family had been invited; they pressed about Cosette.
Toussaint, assisted by Nicolette, had dressed her.
"Do you know where m Fauchelevent is?"
We are all made so.
Demand nothing more.
They did not see each other, they did not contemplate each other.
Why is it so solid?
They thought they heard voices carolling in the infinite; they had God in their hearts; destiny appeared to them like a ceiling of stars; above their heads they beheld the light of a rising sun
A few moments before they sat down to table, Cosette came, as though inspired by a sudden whim, and made him a deep courtesy, spreading out her bridal toilet with both hands, and with a tenderly roguish glance, she asked him:
Make merry, let us make merry.
The married pair disappeared.
Mist and obscurity are not accepted by the happy.
That brute beast submits.
They looked about for m Fauchelevent.
Pardieu, I decree joy!
"Well, then, laugh."
The guests, preceded by m Gillenormand with Cosette on his arm, entered the dining room, and arranged themselves in the proper order around the table.
Cosette and Marius had been elected.
There must be elections for this in heaven; we are all candidates, unknown to ourselves; the angels vote.
I vote for the end of afflictions and sorrows.
The invention is old, my friends, but it is perfectly new.
Evil does not come from man, who is good at bottom.
Your aunt will permit it, although she has a right to you.
Cosette, let your fine weather be the smile of your husband; Marius, let your rain be your wife's tears.
The poor, who had trooped to the door, and who shared their purses, blessed them.
that's my catechism.
He who says love, says woman.
This birth of two souls into one, ought to be an emotion for the gloom.
"Monsieur Fauchelevent," said the grandfather to him, "this is a fine day.
It is impossible to imagine that God could have made us for anything but this: to idolize, to coo, to preen ourselves, to be dove like, to be dainty, to bill and coo our loves from morn to night, to gaze at one's image in one's little wife, to be proud, to be triumphant, to plume oneself; that is the aim of life.
In the antechamber, three violins and a flute softly played quartettes by Haydn.
It was an exquisite candor expanding and becoming transfigured in the light.
The philosophers talk stuff and nonsense.
Let us obey the sun blindly.
From the moment when Marius took his place, and was the substitute, Cosette would not have regretted God himself.
CHAPTER two-JEAN VALJEAN STILL WEARS HIS ARM IN A SLING
Henceforth, there must be no sadness anywhere.
Love is the sublime crucible wherein the fusion of the man and the woman takes place; the being one, the being triple, the being final, the human trinity proceeds from it.
This declaration sufficed.
Well, what then?
A banquet had been spread in the dining room.
Take care, Estelle, thou art too pretty!
Moreover, what is an obscure corner in such a submersion of joy?
There was a tumult, then silence.
Are we happy because we are good, or are we good because we are happy?
I am Madame Thou."
Good, here I am uttering demagogical words!
"My children," said the grandfather, "here you are, Monsieur le Baron and Madame la Baronne, with an income of thirty thousand livres."
My name is Marius.
It is good sense.
I am no longer Royalist except towards that royalty.
For sixty centuries men and women have got out of their scrape by loving.
All the rest weeps.
And we have been as foolish as you.
Have a care, Nemorin, thou art too handsome!
They realized the verses of Jean Prouvaire; they were forty years old taken together.
The empty spaces between the candelabra were filled in with bouquets, so that where there was not a light, there was a flower.
Fine stupidity, in sooth!
That is legal and delightful. Fortunatus beside Fortunata."--Applause from the whole table.
One possesses and one supposes.
One would have pronounced her a virgin on the point of turning into a goddess.
The dining room was full of gay things.
The lover is the priest; the ravished virgin is terrified.
He took the place of Jean Valjean, who, on account of his arm being still in a sling, could not give his hand to the bride.
Well, grumble as he will, when Venus appears he is forced to smile.
The emotion on that day, of being at mid day and of dreaming of midnight is indescribable.
It seemed to them that their sorrows, their sleepless nights, their tears, their anguish, their terrors, their despair, converted into caresses and rays of light, rendered still more charming the charming hour which was approaching; and that their griefs were but so many handmaidens who were preparing the toilet of joy.
Profit by it.
Cosette, both at the mayor's office and at church, was dazzling and touching.
Their unhappiness formed a halo round their happiness. The long agony of their love was terminating in an ascension.
Can people enchant each other too much, cajole each other too much, charm each other too much?
The arm chair being occupied, m Fauchelevent was obliterated; and nothing was lacking.
Try.
On the threshold of wedding nights stands a smiling angel with his finger on his lips.
The house was no less fragrant than the church; after the incense, roses.
That he begged to be excused, that he would come to morrow. He has just taken his departure."
Cosette did not recognize him.
Jean Valjean, dressed in black, followed them with a smile.
These friends are our angels.
Cosette and Marius were passing through one of those egotistical and blessed moments when no other faculty is left to a person than that of receiving happiness.
Can there be too many perfumes, too many open rose buds, too many nightingales singing, too many green leaves, too much aurora in life?
When. however. women continued to picket in the face of arrest, the Administration quickened its advance into the venture of suppression.
Thinking they had been mistaken in believing the pickets were to be arrested, and having grown weary of their strenuous sport, the crowd moved on its way.
"Furnished without charge to all newspapers, post offices, government officials and agencies of a public character for the dissemination of official news of the United States Government."
Our allies in the crusade for democracy must not know that we had a day by day unrest at home.
The fact was that the pickets had moved the Democrats a step.
I daresay political wisdom crept into the reasoning of others.
Champ Clark, late Democratic speaker of the House, is declaiming to a cheering crowd behind the White House, "Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed." In front of the White House thirteen silent sentinels with banners bearing the same words, are arrested.
Something must be done to stop this expose at once.
People could not be arrested for picketing.
Impossible!
And so it went like a great game of chess.
To jail they must go.
In answering the criticism, Miss Paul publicly stated our position thus: "The intolerable conditions
It would have been exceedingly droll if it had not been so tragic.
Even the South, the Administration's stronghold, sent fiery telegrams demanding action.
As the car carrying the envoys passed swiftly through the gates of the White House there stood on the picket line two silent sentinels, Miss Lucy Burns of New York and mrs Lawrence Lewis of Philadelphia, both members of the National Executive Committee, with a great lettered banner which read:
The Republicans had then attempted to
"Washington, july third nineteen seventeen.
A flurry at the gates of the Chief of the nation at such a time would never do.
Still uncertain as to the purposes of the Republicans, the Democrats were moved to further action.
Doors opened and closed mysteriously.
Others hurled cheap and childish epithets at them.
Alabama, South Carolina, Texas, Maryland, Mississippi, as well as the West, Middle West, New England and the East the stream was endless.
Behind this matching of political wits by the two parties stood the faithful pickets compelling them both to act.
This tiny flame would scarcely be visible.
GEORGE CREEL, Chairman.
The truth must be told at all costs.
We meant it to be.
The Administration had little choice.
The manifestations of popular approval of suffrage, the constant stream of protests to the Administration against its delay nationally, and the shame of having women begging at its gates, could result in only one of two things.
The Administration chose suppression.
The six women who were privileged to serve the first terms of imprisonment for suffrage in this country, were Miss Katherine Morey of Massachusetts, mrs Annie Arneil and Miss Mabel Vernon of Delaware, Miss Lavinia Dock of Pennsylvania, Miss Maud Jamison of Virginia, and Miss Virginia Arnold of
Of course it was embarrassing.
Every time a new piece of legislation was passed; the war tax bill, food conservation or what not,-women from unex pected quarters sent to the Government their protest against the passage of measures so vital to women without women's consent, coupled with an appeal for the liberation of women. Club women, college women, federations of labor; various kinds of organizations sent protests to the Administration leaders.
We are innocent."
News had spread through the city that the pickets were to be arrested.
TO THE RUSSIAN ENVOYS
North Carolina.
It developed that "orders" had been received at the jail immediately after the arrests and before the trial, "to make ready for the suffragettes." What did it matter that their case had not yet been heard?
Miss Burns and Miss Morey upon arriving at the police station, insisted, to the great surprise of all the officials, upon knowing the charge against them.
All carried banners with the same words of the President.
Was the fundamental weakness in our boast of pure and perfect democracy to be so wantonly displayed with impunity?
The First Arrests
And so the Democratic Executive Committee began to spread abroad the news that its act was not really official, but merely reflected the "personal conviction" of the members present.
Whispered conversations were heard. The book on rules and regulations was hopefully thumbed.
"Not a dollar of your fine will we pay," was the answer of the women.
This was too dreadful.
Were not the District Commissioners who gave orders to prepare the cells the direct appointees of President Wilson?
They were promptly arrested for "obstructing the traffic." They, too, were dismissed and their cases never tried.
The responsibility for our protest is, therefore, with the Administration and not with the women of America, if the lack of democracy at home weakens the Administration in its fight for democracy three thousand miles away."
The trial of this group was delayed to give the jail authorities time to "vacate and tidy up," as one prisoner confided to Miss Joy Young.
This was no time for manners.
It decided to bring the offenders to trial.
This fact supplied us with a fresh angle of attack.
Perhaps a raid!
To know that we were no longer wanted at the gates of the White House and that the police were no longer our "friends" was enough for the mob mind.
Some members of the crowd made sport of the women.
The women had stood as silent sentinels holding the President's own eloquent words.
They resorted to force in an attempt to end picketing.
Simultaneously with these moves and counter moves in political circles, the people in all sections of this vast country began to speak their minds.
"To pay a fine would be an admission of guilt.
Hurried conferences behind closed doors!
Had they no shame?
against which we protest can be changed in the twinkling of an eye.
"I warn you, you will be arrested if you attempt to picket again."
The official bulletin concludes with:
Chapter three
Disorderly conduct?
What a picture!
And all for what?
Closing the Woman's Party headquarters was discussed.
Women could not advance on drawn bayonets.
Inciting to riot?
Meanwhile the President could proclaim through official channels his disinterestedness.
And if they did . . .
It must yield to this pressure from the people or it must suppress the agitation which was causing such interest. It must pass the amendment or remove the troublesome pickets.
Because women were holding banners asking for the precious principle at home that men were supposed to be dying for abroad.
with the visit of the Russian diplomats to the President.
And was not the Chief of Police of the District of Columbia a direct appointee of these same commissioners?
Champ Clark and his throng were not molested.
It decided to remove the pickets.
This occasion offered us the opportunity again to expose the Administration's weakness in claiming complete political democracy while women were still denied their political freedom.
The motion of condemnation was put.
There was hardly any one passing at the time; all traffic had been temporarily suspended, so there was none to obstruct.
President Wilson's word would carry the question into Congress . . .
In some of the actions you must have been wrong.
Good!
Why not now?
"Six more women sentenced to day to thirty days in Occoquan workhouse."
mr
The law gives you no such power.
Four o'clock is the hour the Government clerks begin to swarm homewards.
It looks like President Wilson's move.
Unwilling to pass the amendment, it continued to send women to prison.
That would end the disturbance and it would make our shield of national justice somewhat brighter.
A few moments and Miss Lucy Branham of Maryland and mrs Pauline Adams of Virginia marched down the Avenue, their gay banners waving joyously in the autumn sun, to fill up the gap of the two comrades who had been arrested.
At four o'clock the threatened arrests took place.
This, too, went to certain death.
More banners ,went out,-purple, white and gold ones.
But still they came.
A fourth detachment was arrested in the middle of the Avenue on the trolley tracks.
The Avenue was roped off on account of the parade.
Perhaps the inscriptions on the suffrage banners were not tactful.
We originated, to put it in the vernacular, in a kick, and if it be unpatriotic to kick, why then the grown man is unlike the child.
As they attempted to take up their posts, two by two, in front of the Reviewing Stand, opposite the White House, they were gathered in and swept away by the police like common street criminals their golden banners scarcely flung to the breeze.
All this suffrage shouting in Washington has as its single object the attainment of President Wilson's material support for equal suffrage . . . .
But the Administration's policy must go on.
On the same afternoon a slender line of women also "soldiers of freedom"-attempted to march in Washington.
mr
I read:
Would there be any harm in letting Congress vote on a suffrage resolution?
mr
Don't wait.
It is sometimes awkward indeed to quote the President's speeches after the speeches have "grown cold." Also a too vigorous use of the word "democracy" is distasteful to some government dignitaries, it seems.
no
A BILL
But why not be among the first?
I quote this from his speech in the Senate august eighteenth nineteen seventeen:
Still others advanced.
'As you like,' answered the queen, 'there isn't any doubt which it was.'
'Tiger?' replied the queen.
'Listen to that tiger!' remarked the king.
Help me! help me!'
'I tell you it was a tiger,' said the king.
It was only a jackal.'
Help me! help me!'
'Nonsense!' snapped the queen.
'In prison,' replied the farmer; 'if your majesty will clear this court of the jackals I will explain.'
But the prince felt better.
In a few minutes the prince appeared.
I'm afloat!"
"Princess!" said he.
She did not care who the man was; that was nothing to her.
"There, then," said she, holding out the wine to him.
"Here I am," said the prince.
They bore her across to the stone where they had already placed a little boat for her.
You must sit and look at me, else I shall not be able to keep up."
"Now you can go."
"Well?" said she, without looking round.
And the little boat bumped against the stone.
When she saw it she shrieked, and covered her face with her hands.
Put me in."
The princess gave a shriek, and sprang into the lake.
"Put me in."
"Put me up directly."
"How am I to put you in?" "That is your business," she answered, quite snappishly.
nine.
"You took me out-put me in again."
I pity you."
"Very well," said the prince; and, catching her up in his arms, he sprang with her from the rock.
"Thank you.
It was, in fact, the princess laughing.
"I wish I hadn't one either," rejoined the princess; "it is so stupid! I have a great mind," she continued, "to play them all a trick.
"Come, then," said the prince.
But I don't care.
"I'll tell papa."
"Is that what you call FALLING IN?"
"You naughty, naughty, NAUGHTY, NAUGHTY man!" she cried.
The princess did not appear to understand him, for she retorted his question:--
You know----"
THE CONCLUSION.
"Hold your tongue," answered the Dervish.
Sir:
Pierre Aronnax
From Pope, she learnt to censure those who
THIS little work was finished in the year eighteen o three, and intended for immediate publication.
That
by
From Thompson, that-
This was strange indeed!
This is a LibriVox recording.
"Catherine grows quite a good looking girl-she is almost pretty today," were words which caught her ears now and then; and how welcome were the sounds!
For more information, or to volunteer, please visit librivox dot org.
Such was Catherine Morland at ten.
I did not quite like, at breakfast, to hear you talk so much about the French bread at Northanger."
He was not ill inclined to obey this request, for, though his heart was greatly relieved by such unlooked for mildness, it was not just at that moment in his power to say anything to the purpose.
CHAPTER thirty
john Thorpe had first misled him.
"I am sure I do not care about the bread.
Catherine took up her work directly, saying, in a dejected voice, that "her head did not run upon Bath-much."
For an instant she lost their steady glare and then she found her voice.
Here, Jack!"
Then he turned abruptly and left the club.
"Well," sneered Sadness, "you see drunken men tell the truth, and you don't seem to get much guilt out of our young friend.
Finally he took a turn for the better that endured so long that Hattie Sterling again gave him her faith.
For a while he stood still, brooding silently, his red eyes blinking at the light.
"I tell you, Sadness," he said impulsively, "dancing is the poetry of motion."
Drunk half the time and half drunk the rest.
This was not Joe.
"Oh, you have?
Some one was playing rag time on the piano, and the dancers were wheeling in time to the music.
"I would n't if I were you.
He always came in alone now, for Maudie had gone the way of all the half world, and reached depths to which mr Skaggs's job prevented him from following her.
When he finally awoke, he started up as if some determination had come to him in his sleep.
What?"
For instance, the whole way of a family's life may be changed.
A part of the helplessness of his intoxication had gone, but his first act was to call for more whiskey.
The scream was checked as it began.
Well, don't handle it carelessly; it might go off." And Sadness rose.
He stopped to help himself to a glass of brandy, as he had so often done before.
Then he became a hanger on at the clubs, a genteel loafer.
"I 'm goin' to kill her." He paused and looked at them drowsily.
Bet the chap stole it himself and 's letting the old man suffer for it.
Then he was battered, unkempt, and thick of speech.
This was not the boy that she had turned and twisted about her little finger.
But his were the fire of hell.
"Who did?
"Lucky dog!
"You put me out-you-you, and you made me what I am." The realisation of what he was, of his foulness and degradation, seemed just to have come to him fully.
"Who is it?" she cried in affright.
It made him think of Maudie.
You might have known it would have happened sooner or later. Better sooner than never."
The reporter sat thinking for a time and then followed him, leaving Joe in a drunken sleep at the table.
There was an expression of a whipped dog on his face.
"By Jove!" he exclaimed, "did you hear that?
His eyes fell to her throat.
"In some cases," said Sadness.
She was a light sleeper, and his step awakened her.
"You put me out to night," he repeated, "like a dog."
He broke into a laugh, a dry, murderous laugh, and his hands sought each other while the fingers twitched over one another like coiling serpents.
She showed him that she was proud of him.
However, he mourned truly for his lost companion, and to night he was in a particularly pensive mood.
The gown had fallen away from her breast and showed the convulsive fluttering of her heart.
He moved a step nearer her.
For almost four years this had happened intermittently.
"Yes, and I 'm going to do it again.
"You ought to be put under a glass case and placed on exhibition."
fourteen
If he did n't steal it, who did?"
She had at first given him his gentle push, but when she saw that his collapse would lose her a faithful and useful slave she had sought to check his course.
She looked at him in silent contempt for a while as he sat nursing his aching head.
He held her.
"Yes, he does, a drunken man tells the truth."
Skaggs smoked in silence and looked at Joe.
Skaggsy looked at them regretfully as he sipped his liquor.
He looked as she had never seen him look before.
She kept her promise and threw him over.
She gazed at him fascinated.
It was very late when he reached Hattie's door, but he opened it with his latch key, as he had been used to do.
He had not uttered a word.
They drank, and then, as if the whiskey had done him good, Joe sat up in his chair.
She started to rise, but he took a step towards her and she paused.
FRANKENSTEIN
He did not return to her for three days.
Still he crept slowly towards her, his lips working and his hands moving convulsively.
It may be true that the habits of years are hard to change, but this is not true of the first sixteen or seventeen years of a young person's life, else Kitty Hamilton and Joe could not so easily have become what they were.
She sprang up in bed, glaring angrily at him.
"Drunk again," said Sadness.
His fingers had closed over her throat just where the gown had left it temptingly bare.
After some demur she received him upon his former footing.
There he lay for more than two hours.
He fell again.
Good natures may be made into bad ones and out of a soul of faith grow a spirit of unbelief.
For the first time he looked up, and his eyes were full of tears-tears both of grief and intoxication.
Great story, ain't it? Come, come, wake up here.
Well, you know what I told you the last time you got 'loaded'?
It was only for a few months.
"You put me out to night," he said.
Hullo there!" as the young man brought up against him; "take a seat." He put him in a chair at the table.
He was so ready to go down that it needed but a gentle push to start him, and once started, there was nothing within him to hold him back from the depths. For his will was as flabby as his conscience, and his pride, which stands to some men for conscience, had no definite aim or direction.
He groaned and his head sunk lower.
Her threat of the severance of their relations had held him up for a little time, and she began to believe that he was safe again.
Hattie Sterling had given him both his greatest impulse for evil and for good.
He sighed and turned away.
"Father?
She warmed to him.
His helplessness, instead of inspiring her with pity, inflamed her with an unfeeling anger that burst forth in a volume of taunts.
She fell back upon her pillow in silence.
This was a terrible, terrible man or a monster.
This he gulped down, and followed with another and another.
She shrank back from him, back to the wall.
Oh, don't look at me like that."
Then, all of a sudden, he went down again, and went down badly.
Sadness and Skaggsy were together at the club that night.
The independence of respectability may harden into the insolence of defiance, and the sensitive cheek of modesty into the brazen face of shamelessness.
He took another step towards her.
"Been lushin' a bit, eh?"
They held her.
I mean it too.
Still his hands twitched and his eye held her.
He went forth at once to celebrate his victory.
He went back to the work he had neglected, drank moderately, and acted in most things as a sound, sensible being.
He did not work, and yet he lived and ate and was proud of his degradation.
They gave it the caress of death. She struggled.
"Joe, Joe!" she said hoarsely, "what 's the matter?
"Yes," replied Sadness, "and dancing in rag time is the dialect poetry."
Five years is but a short time in the life of a man, and yet many things may happen therein.
Five years had not changed the latter as to wealth or position or inclination, and he was still a frequent visitor at the Banner.
It had taken barely five years to accomplish an entire metamorphosis of their characters.
He never stole that money.
He was too weak to resist the blow, and, tumbling from the chair, fell limply to the floor, where he lay at her feet, alternately weeping aloud and quivering with drunken, hiccoughing sobs.
Her eyes blazed back at him, but she sang on insolently, tauntingly.
"You made me what I am, and then you sent me away. You let me come back, and now you put me out."
Her eyes prayed to his.
"Now, go, you drunken dog, and never put your foot inside this house again."
It savoured of flippancy, and he was about entering upon a discussion to prove that Sadness had no soul, when Joe, with blood shot eyes and dishevelled clothes, staggered in and reeled towards them.
What about your father?"
She tried to scream and she could not.
In Joe's case even a shorter time was needed.
"Oh, a hair of the dog.
The reporter did not like this.
His step was steady and his tone was clear, menacingly clear.
"Ha'ie 's throwed me down."
Finally he flung her from him like a rag, and sank into a chair.
The very inanity of the man disgusted her, and on a sudden impulse she sprang up and struck him full in the face with the flat of her hand.
"Here, here, tell us about your father and the money.
His face was ashen and his eyes like fire and blood.
Men also relate the tale of
Now this was the woman who had given two scones as an alms to the asker, and whose hands had been cut off therefor; and when the King married her, her fellow wives envied her and wrote to the common husband that she was an unchaste, having just given birth to the boy; so he wrote to his mother, bidding her carry the woman into the desert and leave her there.
So I said to him, 'Allah give thee health!
Never heard I of his like." And he bade Ibrahim bin al Mahdi bring him to court, that he might see him.
And men relate a tale of
Succour Abu Hassan al Ziyadi.' I awoke a second time, but knowing thee not I went to sleep again; and he came to me a third time and still I knew thee not and went to sleep again.
When it was Three Hundred and Forty eighth Night
As she went along, she came to a river and knelt down to drink, being overcome with excess of thirst, for fatigue of walking and for grief; but, as she bent her head, the child which was at her neck fell into the water.
And Allah is the Giver, the Bestower!
Begin with the sister;' and he answered, 'With joy and goodwill.' So she came down and he showed me her hand and behold, she was the owner of the hand and wrist.
Answered he, 'O my lord, it is yet but the first third of the night and indeed we have hardly had time to rest.' I returned to my bed, but sleep was forbidden to me and I ceased not to awaken the boy, and he to put me off, till break of day, when he saddled me the mule, and I mounted and rode out, not knowing whither to go.
A certain King once made proclamation to the people of his realm saying, "If any of you give alms of aught, I will verily and assuredly cut off his hand;" wherefore all the people abstained from alms deed, and none could give anything to any one.
But, haply, this is a dream; for how could I hope that one of the Caliphate house should visit my humble home and carouse with me this night?' I conjured him to be seated; so he sat down and began to question me as to the cause of my visit in the most courteous terms.
Things being on this wise there came to me one day certain of my servants and said to me, 'At the door is a pilgrim wight, who seeketh admission to thee.' Quoth I, 'Admit him.' So he came in and behold, he was a Khorasani.
THE WOMAN WHOSE HANDS WERE CUT OFF FOR GIVING ALMS TO THE POOR.
When it was the Three Hundred and Forty ninth Night,
I threw the reins on the mule's shoulders and gave myself up to regrets and melancholy thoughts, whilst she fared on with me to the eastward of Baghdad.
When it was the Three Hundred and Fiftieth Night,
THE DEVOUT ISRAELITE.
Quoth I, 'Allah make me thy ransom!
And men recount this story of
The old Queen obeyed his commandment and abandoned the woman and her son in the desert; whereupon she fell to weeping for that which had befallen her and wailing with exceeding sore wail.
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the man took the trencher and jar to the bazar, but none would buy them of him.
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Ibrahim son of Al Mahdi continued: "Now when the housemaster heard my name he sprang to his feet and said, 'Indeed I wondered that such gifts should belong to any but the like of thee; and Fortune hath done me a good turn for which I cannot thank her too much.
Under other circumstances than those which invested him, it is not impossible that he would have become a painter.
His second principle was the love of woman.
The gigantic magnitude and the immediately available nature of the sum, dazzled and bewildered all who thought upon the topic.
This gentlemen had amassed a princely fortune, and, having no very immediate connexions, conceived the whim of suffering his wealth to accumulate for a century after his decease.
He admitted but four unvarying laws, or rather elementary principles, of Bliss.
But, for the inconceivable wealth in the actual possession of the young heir, these objects and all ordinary objects were felt to be inadequate.
That the true 'result of the natural style of gardening is seen rather in the absence of all defects and incongruities, than in the creation of any special wonders or miracles,' is a proposition better suited to the grovelling apprehension of the herd, than to the fervid dreams of the man of genius.
Or it might have been that he became neither the one nor the other, in pursuance of an idea of his which I have already mentioned-the idea, that in the contempt of ambition lay one of the essential principles of happiness on earth. Is it not, indeed, possible that while a high order of genius is necessarily ambitious, the highest is invariably above that which is termed ambition?
Nor was I greatly astonished at the nature of his decision.
I was not surprised, however, to perceive that he had long made up his mind upon a topic which had occasioned so much of discussion to his friends.
His intellect was of that order to which the attainment of knowledge is less a labor than a necessity and an intuition.
From his cradle to his grave, a gale of the blandest prosperity bore him along.
Byron, who often erred, erred not in saying, I've seen more living beauty, ripe and real, than all the nonsense of their stone ideal.
While the component parts may exceed, individually, the highest skill of the artist, the arrangement of the parts will always be susceptible of improvement.
And I have now mentioned all the provinces in which even the most liberal understanding of the poetic sentiment has declared this sentiment capable of expatiating.
Rule applies but to the excellences of avoidance-to the virtues which deny or refrain.
There are the stately avenues and retirements of Versailles; Italian terraces; and a various mixed old English style, which bears some relation to the domestic Gothic or English Elizabethan architecture.
The possessor of any appreciable amount of money might have been imagined to perform any one of a thousand things.
A terrace, with an old moss covered balustrade, calls up at once to the eye, the fair forms that have passed there in other days.
Yet his reasons have not yet been matured into expression.
In the most rugged of wildernesses-in the most savage of the scenes of pure Nature-there is apparent the art of a Creator; yet is this art apparent only to reflection; in no respect has it the obvious force of a feeling.
Many futile attempts had been made to set aside this singular bequest; their ex post facto character rendered them abortive; but the attention of a jealous government was aroused, and a decree finally obtained, forbidding all similar accumulations.
"Its adaptation to the eyes which were to behold it upon earth." In his explanation of this phraseology, mr Ellison did much towards solving what has always seemed to me an enigma.
No such Paradises are to be found in reality as have glowed upon the canvass of Claude.
Having, I say, felt its truth here.
That which he considered chief, was (strange to say!) the simple and purely physical one of free exercise in the open air.
His family was one of the most illustrious of the empire.
The artificial style has as many varieties as there are different tastes to gratify.
It appears that about one hundred years prior to mr Ellison's attainment of his majority, there had died, in a remote province, one mr Seabright Ellison.
"There are, properly," he writes, "but two styles of landscape gardening, the natural and the artificial.
'A mixture of pure art in a garden scene, adds to it a great beauty.' This is just; and the reference to the sense of human interest is equally so.
No pictorial or sculptural combinations of points of human loveliness, do more than approach the living and breathing human beauty as it gladdens our daily path.
Men knew not what to imagine.
The mathematics afford no more absolute demonstrations, than the sentiment of his Art yields to the artist.
mr Ellison became neither musician nor poet; although no man lived more profoundly enamored both of Music and the Muse.
In the widest and noblest sense, he was a poet.
In all other matters we are justly instructed to regard Nature as supreme.
The result of the natural style of gardening, is seen rather in the absence of all defects and incongruities-in the prevalence of a beautiful harmony and order, than in the creation of any special wonders or miracles.
And even far more than this, in remedy of the defective composition, each insulated member of the fraternity will suggest the identical emendation.
When it had become definitely known that such was the enormous wealth inherited, there were, of course, many speculations as to the mode of its disposal.
Thus the usual track of supposition was thoroughly broken up.
His bride was the loveliest and most devoted of women.
The proper gratification of the sentiment he instinctively felt to lie in the creation of novel forms of Beauty.
The ideas of my friend may be summed up in a few words.
"The health," he said, "attainable by other means than this is scarcely worth the name." He pointed to the tillers of the earth-the only people who, as a class, are proverbially more happy than others-and then he instanced the high ecstasies of the fox hunter.
Recourse was had to figures; and figures but sufficed to confound.
Of course, much depends upon the selection of a spot with capabilities.
It was mr Ellison who first suggested the idea that what we regarded as improvement or exaltation of the natural beauty, was really such, as respected only the mortal or human point of view; that each alteration or disturbance of the primitive scenery might possibly effect a blemish in the picture, if we could suppose this picture viewed at large from some remote point in the heavens.
I mean the fact (which none but the ignorant dispute,) that no such combinations of scenery exist in Nature as the painter of genius has in his power to produce.
One seeks to recall the original beauty of the country, by adapting its means to the surrounding scenery; cultivating trees in harmony with the hills or plain of the neighboring land; detecting and bringing into practice those nice relations of size, proportion and color which, hid from the common observer, are revealed everywhere to the experienced student of nature.
The merit suggested is, at best, negative, and appertains to that hobbling criticism which, in letters, would elevate Addison into apotheosis.
I repeat that the principle here expressed, is incontrovertible; but there may be something even beyond it.
This act did not prevent young Ellison, upon his twenty first birth day, from entering into possession, as the heir of his ancestor, Seabright, of a fortune of four hundred and fifty millions of dollars.
In personal grace and beauty he exceeded all men.
The slightest exhibition of art is an evidence of care and human interest."
He comprehended, moreover, the true character, the august aims, the supreme majesty and dignity of the poetic sentiment.
It was seen, that even at three per cent, the annual income of the inheritance amounted to no less than thirteen millions and five hundred thousand dollars; which was one million and one hundred and twenty five thousand per month; or thirty six thousand, nine hundred and eighty six per day, or one thousand five hundred and forty one per hour, or six and twenty dollars for every minute that flew.
In the most enchanting of natural landscapes, there will always be found a defect or an excess-many excesses and defects.
"From what I have already observed," said mr Ellison, "you will understand that I reject the idea, here expressed, of 'recalling the original beauty of the country.' The original beauty is never so great as that which may be introduced.
It remains for a more profound analysis than the world has yet seen, fully to investigate and express them.
Beyond these the critical art can but suggest.
In the brief existence of Ellison, I fancy, that I have seen refuted the dogma-that in man's physical and spiritual nature, lies some hidden principle, the antagonist of Bliss.
In truth, while that merit which consists in the mere avoiding demerit, appeals directly to the understanding, and can thus be foreshadowed in Rule, the loftier merit, which breathes and flames in invention or creation, can be apprehended solely in its results.
He was remarkable in the entire and continuous profusion of good gifts ever lavished upon him by fortune.
With her details we shrink from competition.
Let a composition be defective, let an emendation be wrought in its mere arrangement of form; let this emendation be submitted to every artist in the world; by each will its necessity be admitted.
In the course of our discussion, my young friend took occasion to quote some passages from a writer who has been supposed to have well treated this theme.
I have said that Ellison was remarkable in the continuous profusion of good gifts lavished upon him by Fortune.
The sophists of the negative school, who, through inability to create, have scoffed at creation, are now found the loudest in applause.
I mean it as synonymous with happiness.
This is partly pleasing to the eye, by the show of order and design, and partly moral.
I could like, said my mother, to look through the key hole out of curiosity-Call it by its right name, my dear, quoth my father-
'twas a Beguine, said my uncle Toby.
Stick a pin in the bosom of thy shirt, before thou enterest her parlour.
--They are all books which excite laughter; and thou knowest, dear Toby, that there is no passion so serious as lust.
As the turning of the thin scarlet breeches was laid aside (at least for the present), there was nothing which should put it off beyond the next morning; so accordingly it was resolv'd upon, for eleven o'clock.
Yorick, for this reason, though he would often attack him-yet could never bear to do it with all his force.
Walter Shandy.
The hypothesis, like the rest of my father's, was plausible enough, and my uncle Toby had but a single word to object to it-in which Trim stood ready to second him-but my father had not drawn his conclusion-
By falling in love with a popish clergy woman; said Trim.
I rest thy affectionate brother,
--Unless the breaking out of a fresh war-So wishing every thing, dear Toby, for best,
--A just medium prevents all conclusions.
My dear brother Toby,
--She has gained her point.
Silence, and whatever approaches it, weaves dreams of midnight secrecy into the brain: For this cause, if thou canst help it, never throw down the tongs and poker.
--Now, What do'st thou believe?
It is so much easier to say that a thing is black, than to discriminate the particular shade of brown, blue, or green, to which it really belongs.
Under these circumstances, you will imagine how welcome was the perfect credence and admiration she met with from mr and mrs Barton.
Miss Phipps, for her part, didn't like dressing for effect-she had always avoided that style of appearance which was calculated to create a sensation.
She had had seven years of sufficiently happy matrimony with Czerlaski, who had taken her to Paris and Germany, and introduced her there to many of his old friends with large titles and small fortunes.
There was nothing here so very detestable.
He might be slightly recalcitrant now and then, as is the habit of long eared pachyderms, under the thong of the fair Countess's tongue; but there seemed little probability that he would ever get his neck loose.
Still, a bachelor's heart is an outlying fortress that some fair enemy may any day take either by storm or stratagem; and there was always the possibility that mr Bridmain's first nuptials might occur before the Countess was quite sure of her second.
Moreover, Miss Phipps was conscious that if the Countess was not a disreputable person, she, Miss Phipps, had no compensating superiority in virtue to set against the other lady's manifest superiority in personal charms.
One of these conclusions was, that there were things more solid in life than fine whiskers and a title, and that, in accepting a second husband, she would regard these items as quite subordinate to a carriage and a settlement.
It is true, the Countess was a little vain, a little ambitious, a little selfish, a little shallow and frivolous, a little given to white lies.--But who considers such slight blemishes, such moral pimples as these, disqualifications for entering into the most respectable society!
Let us do this one sly trick, says Ulysses to Neoptolemus, and we will be perfectly honest ever after-
mr Bridmain had put his neck under the yoke of his handsome sister, and though his soul was a very little one-of the smallest description indeed-he would not have ventured to call it his own.
So she began to feel that she had miscalculated the advantages of a neighbourhood where people are well acquainted with each other's private affairs.
Nice distinctions are troublesome.
All this, which was the simple truth, would have seemed extremely flat to the gossips of Milby, who had made up their minds to something much more exciting.
Thus there was really not much affectation in her sweet speeches and attentions to mr and mrs Barton.
mr Bridmain, in fact, quadragenarian bachelor as he was, felt extremely well pleased to receive his sister in her widowhood, and to shine in the reflected light of her beauty and title.
mr Bridmain's slow brain had adopted his sister's views, and it seemed to him that a woman so handsome and distinguished as the Countess must certainly make a match that might lift himself into the region of county celebrities, and give him at least a sort of cousinship to the quarter sessions.
Still their friendship by no means adequately represented the object she had in view when she came to Milby, and it had been for some time clear to her that she must suggest a new change of residence to her brother.
As for Milly, the Countess really loved her as well as the preoccupied state of her affections would allow.
The Countess did actually leave Camp Villa before many months were past, but under circumstances which had not at all entered into her contemplation.
My uncle Toby look'd earnestly towards his cottage and his bowling green.
She cannot, quoth my uncle Toby, halting, when they had march'd up to within twenty paces of mrs Wadman's door-she cannot, corporal, take it amiss.--
The mistake in my father, was in attacking my mother's motive, instead of the act itself; for certainly key holes were made for other purposes; and considering the act, as an act which interfered with a true proposition, and denied a key hole to be what it was-it became a violation of nature; and was so far, you see, criminal.
A temperate current of blood ran orderly through her veins in all months of the year, and in all critical moments both of the day and night alike; nor did she superinduce the least heat into her humours from the manual effervescencies of devotional tracts, which having little or no meaning in them, nature is oft times obliged to find one-And as for my father's example!
quoth my uncle Toby, facing quite about to the corporal.
My uncle Toby turn'd his head more than once behind him, to see how he was supported by the corporal; and the corporal as oft as he did it, gave a slight flourish with his stick-but not vapouringly; and with the sweetest accent of most respectful encouragement, bid his honour 'never fear.'
It is enough they were held impracticable the night before, and as there was no alternative in my uncle Toby's wardrobe, he sallied forth in the red plush.
As for the thin scarlet breeches, they had been unripp'd by the taylor between the legs, and left at sixes and sevens-
--It looks well at least; quoth my father to himself.
It is for this reason, an' please your Reverences, That key holes are the occasions of more sin and wickedness, than all other holes in this world put together.
or when he gathered it? or when he chew'd it? or when he roasted it? or when he peel'd, or when he brought it home? or when he digested?--or when he-?--For 'tis plain, Sir, if the first picking up of the apple, made it not his-that no subsequent act could.
Chapter two.twenty six.
Whilst I am worth one, to pay a weeder-thy path from thy door to thy bowling green shall never be grown up.--Whilst there is a rood and a half of land in the Shandy family, thy fortifications, my dear uncle Toby, shall never be demolish'd.
--'tis a full inch, continued my grandfather, pressing up the ridge of his nose with his finger and thumb; and repeating his assertion-'tis a full inch longer, madam, than my father's-You must mean your uncle's, replied my great grandmother.
He did his part however.--If education planted the mistake (in case it was one) my father watered it, and ripened it to perfection.
My father, replied my grandfather, had no more nose, my dear, saving the mark, than there is upon the back of my hand.
Pray, mr Shandy, what patent has he to shew for it? and how did it begin to be his? was it, when he set his heart upon it?
--Now, you must know, that my great grandmother outlived my grandfather twelve years; so that my father had the jointure to pay, a hundred and fifty pounds half yearly-(on Michaelmas and Lady day,)--during all that time.
Now, my father, as I told you last year, detested all this-He pick'd up an opinion, Sir, as a man in a state of nature picks up an apple.--It becomes his own-and if he is a man of spirit, he would lose his life rather than give it up.
ex confesso, he will say-things were in a state of nature-The apple, is as much Frank's apple as John's.
--'twas shaped, Sir, like an ace of clubs.
--My great grandfather was convinced.--He untwisted the paper, and signed the article.
Defend me, gracious Heaven! from those persecuting spirits who make no allowances for these workings within us.--Never-O never may I lay down in their tents, who cannot relax the engine, and feel pity for the force of education, and the prevalence of opinions long derived from ancestors!
His piano works are a rich addition to the pianist's store, but whoever would unveil their beautiful proportions, all aglow as they are with sacred fire, must have taken a master's degree.
A rival of Liszt in the concert field, especially before a Parisian public, was Sigismund Thalberg (eighteen twelve to eighteen seventy one), who visited this country in eighteen fifty five and literally popularized the piano in America.
peter Iljitch Tschaikowsky (eighteen forty to eighteen ninety three), the distinguished representative of the modern Russian school, was an original, dramatic and fertile composer and wrote for the piano some of his highly colored and very characteristic music.
His series of performances in this line, covering the entire range of piano literature, in addition to his own compositions, given entirely without notes, led the public to expect playing by heart from all other artists.
His "Suites" exalted forever the familiar dance tunes of the German people.
As a teacher he was genial, kind, encouraging and in every respect a model.
He possessed a well trained, fascinating mechanism, with scales, chords, arpeggios and octaves that were marvels of neatness and accuracy, and a tone that was mellow and liquid, though lacking in warmth.
Piano composers and virtuosos rapidly increase.
His important theoretical work, "The True Art of Clavier Playing," was pronounced by Haydn the school of schools for all time.
Anton Rubinstein (eighteen thirty to eighteen ninety four) was the impressionist, the subjective artist, who re created every composition he played.
The secular music principle of the sixteenth century that called into active being the orchestra led also to a desire for richer musical expression in home and social life than the fashionable lute afforded, and the clavier advanced in favor.
In Germany, with grand old Father Bach, the keyboard instrument was found capable of mirroring a mighty soul.
With the Virgin Queen it was a prime favorite, although not named expressly for her as the flattering fashion of the time led many to assume.
His son and pupil, Philipp Emanuel Bach (seventeen fourteen to seventeen eighty eight), proceeding on the principles established by his illustrious father, prepared the way for the modern pianist.
Madame Schumann had acquired a splendid foundation for her career through the wise guidance of her father, whose pedagogic ideas every piano student might consider with profit.
In the year fifteen twenty nine, Pietro Bembo, a grave theoretician, wrote to his daughter Helena, at her convent school: "As to your request to be allowed to learn the clavier, I answer that you cannot yet, owing to your youth, understand that playing is only suited for volatile, frivolous women; whereas I desire you to be the most lovable maiden in the world.
In a collection of thirty sonatas he explained his purpose in these words: "Amateur, or professor, whoever thou art, seek not in these compositions for any profound feeling.
His method is that of common sense, based on keen analytical faculties, and he never trains the hand apart from the musical sense.
The dreamy fervor and the glowing fire of an impassioned nature may be felt in his works, but also many times the lack of balance that belongs with the malady by which he was assailed.
Its box like case was first placed on a table, later on its own stand, and increased in elegance.
"Let all who aspire follow him in his flights toward regions sublime."
Byrd was the more intimate, delicate, spiritual intellect; Bull the untamed genius, the brilliant executant, the less exquisitely refined artist.
Forkel, his biographer, has finely said that Bach considered the voices of his fugues a select company of persons conversing together.
Delicate, sensitive, fastidious, Frederic Chopin (eighteen o nine to eighteen forty nine) delivered his musical message with persuasive eloquence through the medium of the piano.
His operatic transcriptions, in which a central melody is enfolded in arabesques, chords and running passages, have long since become antiquated, but his art of singing on the piano and many of his original studies still remain valuable to the pianist.
The clavier gave promise of its destined career in the Elizabethan age. Shakespeare immortalized it, and William Byrd (fifteen forty six to sixteen twenty three) became the first clavier master.
To carry out his designs the third or sustaining pedal became necessary. His highest ambition, in his own words, was "to leave to piano players the foot prints of attained advance." In eighteen thirty nine he ventured on the first pure piano recital ever given in the concert hall.
He gave the thumb its proper place on the keyboard, and materially improved fingering.
Two pupils of Liszt stand out prominently-Carl Tausig (eighteen forty one to eighteen seventy one) and Eugene D'Albert (eighteen sixty four- ----).
His "Cat's Fugue," and his one movement sonatas still appear on concert programmes.
In France, by fifteen thirty, the dance, that promoter of pure instrumental music, was freely transcribed for the clavier.
From him Haydn gained much that he later transferred to the orchestra.
You have the force to overwhelm, control, compel the public."
Felix Mendelssohn (eighteen o nine to eighteen forty seven), in his work for the piano, adapted to drawing room use technical devices of his day, and in his "Songs without Words" gave a decisive short story form to piano literature.
Mozart brought into use its special features, showed its capacity for tone shading and for the reflection of sentiment, and may well be said to have launched it on its career. Tradition declares that his hand was fashioned for clavier keys, and that its graceful movements afforded the eye no less pleasure than the ear.
The great tidal wave set in motion by the piano has swept over the civilized world, carrying with it hosts of accomplished pianists.
His suggestions deserve consideration to day.
The Clementi school was continued in that familiar writer of Etudes, Johann Baptist Cramer (seventeen seventy one to eighteen fifty eight), and began to show respect for the damper pedal.
Quaint dr Charles Burney (seventeen twenty six to eighteen fourteen) declares, in his "History of Music," that no performer of his day could play them without at least a month's practice.
His scheme of a dialogue, in the opening adagio of his "Invitation to the Dance," followed by an entrancing waltz and a grave concluding dialogue, betokens what he might have accomplished for the piano had he lived longer.
The early hammer clavier, or pianoforte, invented in seventeen eleven, by the Italian Cristofori, who derived the hammer idea from the dulcimer, did not attract him because of its extreme crudeness. Nevertheless, it was destined to develop into the musical instrument essential to the perfect interpretation of his clavier music.
Chopin, who shrank from concert playing, once said to him: "You are destined for it.
Without great creative genius, he occupied himself chiefly with the technical problems of the pianoforte.
As early as the year fourteen hundred claviers had appeared whose strings were plucked by quills attached to jacks at the end of the key levers.
The case was either rectangular, or followed the outlines of the harp, a progenitor of this clavier type.
Hans von Buelow (eighteen thirty to eighteen ninety four) was the objective artist, whose scholarly attainments and musicianly discernment unraveled the most tangled web of phrasing and interpretation.
Not until the eighteenth century was each key provided with a separate string.
He taught the use of a loose wrist, absolute independence of the fingers and a new manipulation of the pedals.
He advises parents to select teachers on whom implicit reliance may be placed, and teachers to keep the claviers of beginners under lock and key that there may be no practicing without supervision.
The keyed monochord gained the name clavichord.
Gaining a profound knowledge of its resources he raised it to an independent power.
When Liszt and Thalberg were in possession of the concert platform, they occupied the attention of cartoonists as fully as Paderewski at a later date.
The same equilibrium is maintained in his piano and violin sonatas and his other concerted chamber music, amid all their persuasive and eloquent discourse.
Franz Schubert (seventeen ninety seven to eighteen twenty eight) and Robert Schumann (eighteen ten to eighteen fifty six) were the evangelists par excellence of the new romantic school.
He gained marvelous fulness of chord power, great dynamic variety, and numerous unexpected solutions of the tone problem.
Schubert, closely allied in spirit to the master builder, Beethoven, was unsurpassed in the refinement of his musical sentiment.
It was highly extolled by Mozart, and to it Clementi ascribed his knowledge and skill.
Many technical means of expression were invented by him, and a wholly new fingering was required for his purposes.
Like the wandering children of nature who had filled the dreams of his childhood, he became a wanderer and marched a conqueror, radiant with triumphs, through the musical world.
Polish patriotism steeped in Parisian elegance shaped his genius, and his compositions portray the emotions of his people in exquisitely polished tonal language.
In it he directs scholars how to avoid a harsh tone, and how to form a legato style.
In his youth Johannes Brahms (eighteen thirty three to eighteen ninety seven), the great apostle of modern intellectual music, made his debut before the musical world as a brilliant and versatile pianist.
In his compositions he was an active agent in the crystallization of the sonata form.
If your friends wish you to play in order to give them pleasure, tell them you do not desire to make yourself ridiculous in their eyes, and be content with your books and your domestic occupations."
It is significant that these two types stand together on the threshold of clavier art." Bull had gained his degree at Oxford, the founding of whose chair of music is popularly attributed to Alfred the Great.
Tranquillity and poetic beauty being prime essentials of his playing, he preferred to the more brilliant harpsichord, or spinet, the clavichord, whose thrilling, tremulous tone, owing to its construction, was exceedingly sensitive to the player's touch.
To this group belonged the virginal, or virginals, the clavicembalo, the harpsichord, or clavecin, and the spinet.
With it he exchanged the most subtle confidences.
Losing the spirituality of a Mozart the Viennese school was destined to degenerate into empty bravura playing.
To her he dedicated his creative power.
Two or more strings of equal length are now divided and set in motion by flat metal wedges, attached to the key levers, and called tangents, because they touched the strings.
Taking upon himself the management of an English piano factory, he extended the keyboard, in seventeen ninety three, to five and a half octaves. Seven octaves were not reached until eighteen fifty one.
What is generally recognized as the first period of clavier virtuosity begins with the Neapolitan Domenico Scarlatti (sixteen eighty three to seventeen fifty seven), and Johann Sebastian Bach (sixteen eighty five to seventeen fifty), the German of Germans.
Rubinstein and Von Buelow offer two more contrasting personalities.
As a piano virtuoso, a teacher, a conductor and an editor of musical works, he was a marked educational factor in music.
But for him, my dear friend, Franz Liszt, you might not have had a note from me to day."
It was his chosen comrade.
In response to the demand for increased range, as many as twenty keys were brought to act on a few strings, commanding often three octaves.
Her playing was distinguished by its musicianly intelligence and fine artistic feeling.
Amid his storm and stress, whispering and listening, his awakening of the soul, an original naturalism of piano playing was recognized, side by side with the naturalism of his creative art.
The romantic temperament of Robert Schumann was nurtured on German romantic literature and music.
He opened the way for the sonority of tone and imposing diction of the modern style.
Living in genial surroundings, he was never forced to struggle, and although he climbed through flowery paths, he never reached the goal he longed for until his heart broke.
The melody flooding his soul beautified his piano compositions, to which only a delicate touch may do justice.
With his piano concertos he showed how clavier and orchestra may converse earnestly together without either having its individuality marred.
By others he has been called the greatest contrapuntist after Bach, the greatest architectonist after Beethoven, the man of creative power who assimilated the older forms and invested them with a new life entirely his own.
Also, it would bring you but little pleasure or renown if you should play badly; while to play well you would be obliged to devote ten or twelve years to practice, without being able to think of anything else.
Advanced knowledge of acoustics and improved methods of construction have made it the magnificent instrument we know in concert hall and home, and to which we now apply the more intimate name, piano.
He was the first to encourage professional clavier playing among women. His daughter Marguerite was the first woman appointed official court clavier player.
Every accent of his dramatic music was embodied in his piano compositions.
The first was distinguished by his extraordinary sense for style, and was thought to surpass his master in absolute flawlessness of technique.
His "Well Tempered Clavichord" has been called the pianist's Sacred Book.
If she actually did justice to some of the airs with variations in the "Queen Elizabeth Virginal Book," she must indeed have been proficient on the instrument.
Earnest simplicity surrounded her public and her private life, and the element of personal display was wholly foreign to her.
Its most eminent virtuoso was john Field (seventeen eighty two to eighteen thirty seven) of Dublin.
In his playing, as in his compositions, every note was a pearl of great price.
The style of Scarlatti is peculiarly the product of Italian love of beautiful tone, and what he wrote, though without depth of motive, kept well in view the technical possibilities of the harpsichord.
Liszt, his hair floating wildly, was represented as darting through the air on wide stretched pinions with keyboards attached-a play on Fluegel, the German for grand piano.
Spontaneous as was his creative power he was most painstaking in regard to the setting of his musical ideas and would often devote weeks to re writing a single page that every detail might be perfect.
His playing is described as possessing an organ firmness of touch without organ ponderosity, and having an expression that moved deeply without intoxicating.
All his early realistic and revolutionary ideas found vent in his pianistic achievements.
Once, when about to play in public Beethoven's magnificent Kreutzer Sonata, with Remenyi, who was the first to recognize his genius, he discovered that the piano was half a tone below concert pitch, and rather than spoil the effect by having the violin tuned down, the boy of nineteen unhesitatingly transposed the piano part which he was playing from memory into a higher key.
His "Gradus ad Parnassum" became the parent of Etude literature.
As a photograph may convey to the home an excellent conception of a master painting in some distant art gallery, so the piano, in addition to the musical creations it has inspired, may present to the domestic circle intelligent reproductions of mighty choral, operatic and instrumental works.
Jean Philippe Rameau (sixteen eighty three to seventeen sixty four) continued Couperin's work.
Stops were added, as in the organ, that varied effects might be produced, and a second keyboard was often placed above the first.
Thalberg, owing to his dignified repose, was caricatured as posing in a stiff, rigid manner before a box of keys.
It was often highly ornamented, and handsomely mounted.
We may safely assume it was not slow in adopting the rude keyboard ascribed by tradition to Pan pipes, and applied to the portable organ of early Christian communities.
His noble technique, based on his profound study of the Bachs, was spiritualized by his own glowing fancy.
Consider a moment whether this would become you.
The man who, by his demands on the piano, induced improvements in its manufacture that materially increased its sonority and made it available for the modern idea, was Franz Liszt (eighteen eleven to eighteen eighty six).
Little more than a century later, Jean Baptiste Lully (sixteen thirty three to sixteen eighty seven) extensively employed the instrument in the orchestration of his operas, and wrote solo dances for it.
Each string from the first had its due length and was tuned to its proper note.
When pupils were discouraged he reminded them how hard he had always been compelled to work, and assured them that equal industry would lead them to success.
Clementi, born in Rome, passed most of his life in London, where he attracted many pupils.
Schumann, on making his acquaintance, proclaimed the advent of a genius who wrote music in which the spirit of the age found its consummation, and who, at the piano, unveiled wonders.
Perhaps the most famous piano teacher of recent times is Theodore Leschetitzky, of Vienna.
The bewitching tones of the gipsy violinist, Bihary, had fallen on his boyish ears "like drops of some fiery, volatile essence," stimulating him to effort.
A highly characteristic motive, or theme, as significant as the noblest "typical phrase," developing into equally characteristic progressions and cadences, is a striking feature of the Bach fugue.
She was the ideal woman, artist and teacher who remained in active service until a short time before her death, in eighteen ninety six.
Carl Tausig said: "There is but one god in technique, Bach, and Clementi is his prophet."
"I should like to be to my people what Uhland was to the Germans," he once said to a friend.
A revering affection was cherished by him for Elsner, to whom he owed his sense of personal responsibility to his art, his habits of serious study and his intimate acquaintance with Bach.
He is described as kind, courteous, possessed of the most captivating grace and ease of manner, now inclined to languorous melancholy, now scintillating with a joyous vivacity that was contagious.
The highest type of artist and human being is thus represented.
His musical heroes were Bach and Mozart, for they represented to him nature, strong individuality and poetry in music.
Neither of these men attempted to hamper his free growth by rigid technical restraints.
Unquestionably the poetry of Chopin is of the most exquisite lyric character, his leadership is supreme.
Liszt once said Chopin was the only pianist he ever knew that could play the violin on the piano.
Indications of it in Bach are too often neglected.
And what an example he has left for teachers.
Beethoven used it effectively. Chopin appropriated it as one of his most potent auxiliaries.
In melody and general conception his tone poems sprang spontaneously from his glowing fancy, but they were subjected to the most severe tests before they were permitted to go out into the world.
Patriot and tone poet in every fibre of his being, his genius inevitably claimed as its own the soul's divinest language, pure music, unfettered by words.
"The piano bard, the piano rhapsodist, the piano mind, the piano soul is Chopin," said Rubinstein.
He addressed himself to the heart of this people and immortalized its joys, sorrows and caprices by the force of his splendid art.
He enriched it with new melodic, harmonic and rhythmic devices adapted to itself alone, and endowed it with a warmth of tone coloring that spiritualized it for all time.
He prepared each hand with infinite care before permitting any attempt at the reproduction of musical ideas.
The recitative of the sixteenth century gave it prominence, and it passed into instrumental music.
So in the most melancholy strains of his music one who heeds well may detect the presence of a lofty ideal that uplifts and strengthens the travailing soul.
"Tragic, romantic, lyric, heroic, dramatic, fantastic, soulful, sweet, dreamy, brilliant, grand, simple, all possible expressions are found in his compositions and all are sung by him on his instrument."
Their guidance left him master of his own genius, at liberty to "soar like the lark into the ethereal blue of the skies." He respected them both.
Although his mode of expression was peculiarly his own, he had received a strong impulse from the popular music of Poland.
Reckless, out of time playing disfigures what is meant to express the fluctuation of thought, the soul's agitation, the rolling of the waves of time and eternity.
Delicately strung as he was, he must often have endured tortures from the best of his pupils, but so thoroughly was he consecrated to his art that he never faltered in his efforts to lift those who confided in him to the aerial heights he had found.
There is food for thought in the fact that this Prince Charming of the piano, whose magic touch awakened the Sleeping Beauty of the instrument of wood and wires, never had a lesson in his life from a mere piano specialist.
In order to place it to advantage he caused it to be thrown lightly on the keyboard so that the five fingers rested on the notes E, F sharp, G sharp, A sharp and B, and without change of position required the practice of exercises calculated to insure independence.
An accentuation like the ringing of distant bells is frequently heard in his music.
By precept and example he advocated frequent playing of the preludes and fugues of Bach as a means of cultivating musical intelligence, muscular independence and touch and tone discrimination.
Players without number have gone stumbling over the piano keys with a tottering, spasmodic gait, serenely fancying they are heeding the master's design.
They were his earliest models; on them were builded his first themes.
He evolved from its more intimate domain effects in sympathy with those of the orchestra, yet purely individual.
The elect few have come into touch with his vision of beauty, but it has been mercilessly misinterpreted by thousands of ruthless aspirants to musical honors, in the schoolroom, the students' recital and the concert hall.
He never hesitated about placing it on a black key when convenient, and had it passed by muscle action alone in scales and broken chords whose zealous practice in different forms of touch, accent, rhythm and tone were demanded by him.
True art softens the harshest accents of suffering by placing superior to it some elevating idea.
It is not too much to say for him that he ushered in a new era for his chosen instrument, spiritualizing its timbre, liberating it from traditional orchestral and choral effects, and elevating it to an independent power in the world of music.
At one time he undertook to write a method or school of piano playing, but never progressed beyond the opening sentences.
He was exceedingly particular about arpeggio work, and insisted upon the repetition of every note and passage until all harshness and roughness of tone were eliminated.
Too sensitive to enjoy playing before miscellaneous audiences whose unsympathetic curiosity, he declared, paralyzed him, Chopin was at his best when interpreting music in private, for a choice circle of friends or pupils, or when absorbed in composition.
Whoever approaches him with weak sentimentalism will miss altogether his dignity and strength.
A very independent use of the thumb was prescribed by him.
"From Zwyny and Elsner even the greatest dunce must learn something," he is quoted as saying.
It is easy to fancy him sweeping the ivory keys with his gossamer touch that enveloped with ethereal beauty the most unaccustomed of his complicated chromatic modulations.
Strong conviction in regard to his own calling and clear perception of the hidden powers and future mission of the piano early compelled him to consecrate to it his unfaltering devotion.
The national tonality became to him a vehicle to be freighted with his own individual conceptions.
It has been said of him that he had a sad heart but a joyful mind.
To him bell tones were ever ringing, reminding him of home, summoning him to the heights.
In giving tonal form to the deep things of the soul, which are universal in their essence and application, he embodied universal rather than merely individual emotional experiences, and thus unbared what was most sacred to himself without jarring on the innate reticence which made purely personal confidences impossible.
The basis of this method consisted in refinement of touch, for the attainment of which a natural, easy position of the hand was considered by Chopin a prime requisite.
The profound reserve of his nature made it peculiarly agreeable to him to gratify the haunting demands of his lyric muse through the medium of the one musical instrument that lends itself in privacy to the exploitation of all the mysteries of harmony.
Born and bred on Poland's soil, son of a French father and a Polish mother, Frederic Chopin (eighteen o nine to eighteen forty nine) combined within himself two natures, each complementing the other, both uniting to form a personality not understood by every casual observer.
"You see that tree," exclaimed Liszt; "its leaves tremble with every breath of the wind, but the tree remains unshaken-that is the rubato." There are storms to which even the tree yields.
A vivid picture of his method of teaching is given in the lectures on "Frederic Chopin's Works and Their Proper Interpretation," by the Pole, Jean Kleczynski.
In the sonatas and concertos he sees the princely Pole bravely carrying his banner amid classical currents.
His sensitive nature, like the most exquisitely constructed sounding board, vibrated with the despairing sadness, the suppressed wrath, and the sublime fortitude of the brave, haughty, unhappy people he loved, and with his own homesickness when afar from his cherished native land.
In regard to the much discussed tempo rubato of Chopin many and fatal blunders have been made.
To the piano he confided all the conflicts that raged within him, all the courage and living hope that sustained him.
"Is that a dog barking?" he was known to exclaim to an unlucky pupil whose attack in the opening arpeggio of a Clementi study lacked the desired quality.
In the same way he had listened to the human voice, and determined that the song of his own instrument should be heard.
To realize them, to divine the laws which regulate the undulating, tempest tossed rubato, requires highly matured artistic taste and absolute musical control.
To interpret him requires simplicity, purity of style, refined technique, poetic imagination and genuine sentiment-not fitful, fictitious sentimentality.
In these few, bold strokes one who knew him by virtue of close art and race kinship, presents an incomparable outline sketch of the Polish tone poet who explored the harmonic vastness of the pianoforte and made his own all its mystic secrets.
We can see and hear this "Raphael of Music" at the piano, so many and so eloquent have been the descriptions given of his playing.
The rubato, from rubare, to rob, represents a pliable movement that is certainly as old as the Greek drama in declamation, and was employed in intoning the Gregorian chant.
Those of his contemporaries who have harkened with rapture to his playing have declared that he alone could adequately interpret his tone creations, or make perfectly intelligible his method.
Those who give ear to the piano alone will never learn the secret of calling forth its supreme eloquence.
But let us not be afraid!
Is not life a hundred times too short for us-to bore ourselves?
The "blue eyed colleen" of Castle Ballagh must have been a myth-having existence only in the erratic fancy of Phelim.
During the course of the meal-but much more over the wine-you will hear talk of "Zeb Stump the hunter."
Leaving him for a time, you would come in contact with two other individuals attached to the establishment.
You would find this old gentleman very proud upon many points: but more especially of his beautiful daughter-the mistress of the mansion-and the half dozen pretty prattlers who cling to his skirts, and call him their "dear grandpa."
Men stood gazing upon her dead body-long gazing-loth to go away-at length going with thoughts not altogether sacred!
Whether or no, Louise Poindexter-Lady Gerald she must now be called- during her sojourn in the Emerald Isle saw nothing to excite her to jealousy.
Nor, that her happiness was heightened, on learning from the astonished spectators, how her lover's life had been preserved-as it might seem miraculously.
The spirit of the aristocratic planter-steeped in sorrow, and humiliated by misfortune-had become purged of its false pride; though it needed not this to make him willingly acquiesce in an alliance, which, instead of a "nobody," gave him a nobleman for his son.
Such features as she possessed, owe not everything to the light of life.
Do not reproach the young Creole, because this passion was paramount in her soul.
As they stood gazing upon the remains of the villain, and his victim- the swarth ruffian dangling from the branch above, and the fair form lying underneath-the hearts of the Texans were touched-as perhaps they had never been before.
The aim of the assassin had been true enough.
It was succeeded by a strong sympathy for the ill fated Isidora; whose story she now better comprehended.
This was not Woodley Poindexter: for after Calhoun's death, it was discovered that the ex captain had once been a Benedict; and there was a young scion of his stock-living in New Orleans-who had the legal right to say he was his son!
For all this, there are those who could conduct you to an ancient hacienda-still known as Casa del Corvo.
JOY.
To the question, "Who has done this?" she was only able to answer, "Diaz-Diaz!"
She even assisted her lord in the saddling of his red bay steed, and encouraged him in the pursuit of the assassin.
The passion that controlled her may not be popular under a strictly Puritan standard.
You may not often see him.
There was a strange thought passing through their minds; a sadness independent of that caused by the spectacle of a murder.
Not harmlessly, however: since it struck one of the spectators standing too close to the spot.
When again restored to consciousness, it was to discover that the fair vision of his dreams was no vision at all, but a lovely woman-the loveliest on the Leona, or in all Texas if you like-by name Louise Poindexter.
While sojourning at Casa del Corvo, you may get hints of a strange story connected with the place-now almost reduced to a legend.
You would have for your host one of the handsomest men in Texas; for your hostess one of its most beautiful women-both still this side of middle life.
But, by a bit of good fortune-not always attendant on an Irish baronetcy-it carried along with it an endowment-ample enough to clear Casa del Corvo of the mortgage held by the late Cassius Calhoun, and claimed by his nearest of kin.
CHAPTER ONE HUNDRED.
Since we last saw him, the gay Pluto has become tamed down to a staid and sober Benedict-black though he be.
Florinda-now the better half of his life-has effected the transformation.
After a visit to his native land-including the European tour-which was also that of his honeymoon-Sir Maurice, swayed by his inclinations, once more returned to Texas, and made Casa del Corvo his permanent home.
That voluptuous shape-the true form divine-may be admired in the cold statue.
Or it may have been the bud of a young love, blighted ere it reached blooming-by absence, oft fatal to such tender plants of passion?
Beautiful, even in death, was Isidora.
Only once again did this fell passion take possession of her spirit; and then only in the shape of a shadow soon to pass away.
Though saddened by the series of tragedies so quickly transpiring, she was but human; and, being woman, who can blame her for giving way to the subdued happiness that succeeded?
Such, in reality, was Sir Maurice Gerald-erst known as Maurice the mustanger!
Do not blame her for feeling pleasure amidst moments that should otherwise have been devoted to sadness.
Once there, you would become the recipient of a hospitality, unequalled in European lands.
In Texas the title would have counted for little; nor did its owner care to carry it.
The stunning shock-with the mental and corporeal excitement-long sustained-did not fail to produce its effect; and the mind of Maurice Gerald once more returned to its delirious dreaming.
Not i Not you, if you speak truly.
In the physical world Time is accounted the destroyer; though in the moral, it is oft the restorer.
Sometimes the burden of this sulphurous profanity is aimed at me, sometimes at the inoffensive bicycle, or both of us collectively, but oftener is it directed at the unspeakable mule, who is really the only party to blame.
"Down a romantic Swiss glen, where scores of sylvan nooks and rippling rills invite one to cast about for fairies and sprites," is the word descriptive of my route from Marcellus next morning.
The roads continue good, and after dinner I reach Westfield, six miles from the famous Lake Chautauqua, which beautiful hill and forest embowered sheet of water is popularly believed by many of its numerous local admirers to be the highest navigable lake in the world.
If so, however, Lake Tahoe in the Sierra Nevada Mountains comes next, as it is about six thousand feet above the level of the sea, and has three steamers plying on its waters.
Splendid is the road and delightful the country coming east from Girard; even the red brick school houses are embowered amid leafy groves; and so it continues with ever varying, ever pleasing beauty to Erie, after which the highway becomes hardly so good.
Leaving the bicycle at "Isham's "-who volunteers some slight repairs I take a flying visit by rail to see Niagara Falls, returning the same evening to enjoy the proffered hospitality of a genial member of the Buffalo Bicycle Club.
A small but frolicsome party of them on top of the Washington monument, "heaved a sigh " from their whistles, at a comrade passing along the street below, when a corpulent policeman, naturally mistaking it for a signal from a brother "cop," hastened to climb the five hundred feet or thereabouts of ascent up the monument.
It is at Otis, in the midst of these hills, that I first become acquainted with the peculiar New England dialect in its native home.
At Rome I enter the famous and beautiful Mohawk Valley, a place long looked forward to with much pleasurable anticipation, from having heard so often of its natural beauties and its interesting historical associations.
When he arrived, puffing and perspiring, to the summit, and discovered his mistake, the wheelmen say he made such awful use of the Queen's English that the atmosphere had a blue, sulphurous tinge about it for some time after.
Twenty four hours after entering Pennsylvania I make my exit across the boundary into the Empire State.
Stopping over night at LeBoy, in company with the president and captain of the LeBoy Club, I visit the State fish hatchery at Mumford next morning, and ride on through the Genesee Valley, finding fair roads through the valley, though somewhat hilly and stony toward Canandaigua.
The Maumee River, winding through its splendid rich valley, seems to possess a peculiar beauty all its own, and my mind, unbidden, mentally compares it with our old friend, the Humboldt.
Once again, on nearing the Camillus outlet from the narrow vale, I hear the sound of Sunday bells, and after the church bell less Western wilds, it seems to me that their notes have visited me amid beautiful scenes, strangely often of late.
Surely, this youngster's head ought to be level on agricultural affairs, when he grows up, if anybody's ought.
A remnant of some Indian tribe still lingers around here and gathers huckleberries for the market, two squaws being in the village purchasing supplies for their camp in the swamps.
Smiling villages nestling amid stately groves, rearing white church spires from out their green, bowery surroundings, dot the low, broad, fertile shore land to the left; the gleaming waters of Lake Erie here and there glisten like burnished steel through the distant interspaces, and away beyond stretches northward, like a vast mirror, to kiss the blue Canadian skies.
From Napoleon my route leads up the Maumee River and canal, first trying the tow path of the latter, and then relinquishing it for the very fair wagon road.
The western half is kept in rather poor repair these days; but from Fremont eastward it is splendid wheeling.
Inquiring the best road to Geneva I am advised of the superiority of the one leading past the poor house.
"Jumbo" goes all right when mounted, but, being unable to mount without aid, he seldom ventures abroad by himself for fear of having to foot it back.
Prominent among them stands the old Garfield homestead — a fine farm of one hundred and sixty five acres, at present managed by mrs Garfield's brother.
The latter stream traverses dreary plains, where almost nothing but sagebrush grows; the Maumee waters a smiling valley, where orchards, fields, and meadows alternate with sugar maple groves, and in its fair bosom reflects beautiful landscape views, that are changed and rebeautified by the master hand of the sun every hour of the day, and doubly embellished at night by the moon.
From the top my road ahead is plainly visible for miles, leading through the broad and smiling Cattaraugus Valley that is spread out like a vast garden below, through which Cattaraugus Creek slowly winds its tortuous way.
Arriving at Camillus, I ask the name of the sparkling little stream that dances along this fairy glen like a child at play, absorbing the sun rays and coquettishly reflecting them in the faces of the venerable oaks that bend over it like loving guardians protecting it from evil.
A fat, phlegmatic looking baby is peacefully reposing in a cradle, which is simply half a monster pumpkin scooped out and dried; it is the most intensely rustic cradle in the world.
No wheelman has ever yet rode up this hill, save the muscular and gritty captain of the Fredonia Club, though several have attempted the feat.
At ten o'clock in the morning, july seventeenth, I bowl across the boundary line into Ohio.
Of the first assertion I have nothing to say, having passed through a dozen "garden spots of the world " on this tour across America; but there is no gainsaying the fact that the Mohawk Valley, as viewed from this vantage spot, is wonderfully beautiful.
From the elevated road bed I cast a longing, lingering look down the Hudson Valley, that stretches away southward like a heaven born dream, and sigh at the impossibility of going two ways at once.
He starts at the invitation-falling, as it does, like a death knell upon his ear.
"No!" he replies, "I have not.
Its meaning is made clear by the act that accompanies it.
I didn't know myself till long after."
The declaration is answered by a cry from the crowd.
For all this, it is remarked as singular, that a storm should be coming at the time: since it symbolises the sentiment of the spectators, who look on with sullenness in their hearts, and gloom in their glances.
The spectators have just time to see the pistol-as it glints under the slanting sunbeams-when two shots are heard in quick succession.
After its second involuntary recess-less prolonged than the first-the Court has once more resumed its functions under the great evergreen oak.
"After what I've confessed, it would be folly in me to expect pardon; and I don't.
The judge is the same, the jury the same, and the spectators as before; though with very different feelings in regard to the criminality of the accused.
It is but an accident of the atmosphere-the portent of an approaching storm.
He feels that there is no chance of escape; that he is standing by the side of his coffin-on the edge of an Eternity too terrible to contemplate.
It was sure enough; and poor Henry dropped from his horse.
The motive both for the murder and the mutilation: for the testimony of Gerald has been confirmed by a subsequent examination of the dead body. The surgeon of the cantonment has pronounced the two distinct, and that Henry Poindexter's death must have ensued, almost instantaneously after his receiving the shot.
With a like interval between, two men fall forward upon their faces; and lie with their heads closely contiguous!
Despairingly: when on the faces that encircle him he sees not one wearing an expression of sympathy.
While speaking he has kept his right hand under the left breast of his coat.
All appear to frown upon him.
I acknowledge that I have forfeited my life, and deserve to lose it."
"I know that I've got to die," proceeds the prisoner, with an air of seeming recklessness.
His demeanour is completely changed.
There was none."
No one can answer these questions, save the murderer himself.
ATTEMPTED MURDER AND SUICIDE.
I did.
Why should Cassius Calhoun have killed his own cousin?
Cassius Calhoun is now the prisoner at the bar!
The evidence is already before them; and though entirely circumstantial-as in most cases of murder-the circumstances form a chain irresistibly conclusive and complete.
From the golden brightness, displayed by them at noon, they have changed to a lurid red-as if there was anger in the sky!
Nor am I going to deny who it was.
There is not even pity.
To a conscience like his, it cannot be otherwise than appalling.
In the place late occupied by him another stands.
The condemned man looks up, as if in hopes that he has touched a chord of mercy.
It would seem as if Heaven's wrath was acting in concert with the passions of Earth!
CHAPTER NINETY NINE.
There is no sign of it, on the faces that surround him-still solemnly austere.
No one expects him to do so-save to his Maker.
I did take his life, as I've told you. You are all asking why, and conjecturing about the motive.
All at once a light is seen to flask into his eyes-sunken as they are in the midst of two livid circles.
"You wonder at that.
"Yes, by mistake; and God knows I was sorry enough, on discovering that I had made it.
I don't, by God!"
There is silence even among the cicadas.
It is broken by the formalised interrogatory of the judge?
Along with the oath it comes forth, holding a revolver.
And not strange that he should.
No one speaks, or in any way attempts interruption.
The "sensation" again expresses itself in shuddering and shouts-the latter prolonged into cries of retribution-mingled with that murmuring which proclaims a story told.
The spectators, guessing his intention, stand breathlessly observing him.
"Refused?
"Forget her," I argued.
Taking it up, I examined it minutely in the light.
Unlocking a drawer in my writing table, I took out a packet of letters that still emitted a stale odour of violets.
I was glad of a chat after a hard day's work at my writing table, but his companionship had one drawback.
I-I shall find her some day; then she will return to me."
"I will not allow it.
My anticipations proved correct.
It seemed as though a happiness-full, complete, perfectly satisfying-had taken possession of her, and lifted her out of herself- out of the world even.
While sitting in his studio musing one day, it suddenly occurred to me that if the flaw upon the forehead could be hidden, it might, after all, be sent for the inspection of the hanging committee.
When I entered the studio, gloomy in the twilight, I was astonished to find that the "Circe" had been removed from the easel, and that it was standing in a corner with its face to the wall.
The clock had struck two, and my reading lamp was burning low and sputtering when I rose to retire for the night.
"I warned you against your infatuation, old fellow," I said seriously.
It hardly does her justice- does it?"
She expressed pleasure at meeting me, remarking that she had read my last novel, and had been keenly interested in it.
Taking it up, I eagerly read the following lines it contained:--
One night, not long after I had expressed my sentiments to him regarding his infatuation, I entered his studio, and found his goddess seated by the fire, with her shapely feet upon the fender, sipping kummel from a tiny glass, and holding a lighted cigarette between her dainty fingers.
"You must stay.
We have been chums for years, for on many occasions he has displayed his talent as a black and white artist in illustrating my articles and stories in various magazines.
I know the type-"
She reeled backwards, and before we could save her, fell senseless to the floor.
"The thing's impossible!" I cried warmly.
Woman's vanity always betrays itself over her picture.
The woman I referred to was yourself."
To think that sin should lie for years in the blood, just as arsenic does in a corpse!
Presently she reappeared, and we went to dine together at a restaurant in Piccadilly, afterwards visiting a theatre, and spending a very pleasant evening.
"Cannot you guess?
That evening the Count received us in the library of his country mansion, and congratulated Dick warmly upon his masterpiece.
It was evident that he meant to secure it at any cost, therefore the price was soon arranged; and before we had been there half an hour, my companion had a cheque for four figures in his pocket.
"Very well, Dick, old chap, forget my words," I said.
"Ah, Harold!" she cried, jumping up as I entered the room.
On this occasion, as on previous ones, I assisted Dick to receive his visitors, but unfortunately Ethel had been taken suddenly unwell, and could not attend.
"Yes; always, always," he replied, shaking his head sorrowfully.
I shook my head sadly.
What would he think of you?"
Dick has asked me to become his wife," she said in a low tone.
Only an artist can appreciate her beauty."
"One thing always strikes me in reading your stories.
"I was amusing myself until your return.
Having acted as eavesdropper, I could hardly question them.
You must come too."
"Ah, here's the Countess!" exclaimed the millionaire, stepping forward to introduce us.
"Ethel."
She was a dark haired, pink and white beauty that flitted through artistic Bohemia like a butterfly in a hothouse.
At the close of a blue summer's day, when the dreamy, golden haze wrapped the city in a mystic charm, I called at the studio, having heard that he had returned, and was settling down to work.
The colour was not dry, therefore I was enabled to remove the greater portion of it with a silk handkerchief, but I saw with regret that the tints of the forehead had been irretrievably ruined, rendering the picture valueless.
I hope I don't disturb you."
Her head was bowed in humiliation.
But it is all over," he added bitterly.
A few days later, I dispatched it to the Academy, and waited patiently for the opening day, when I experienced the mingled surprise and satisfaction of seeing it hung "upon the line."
Glancing sharply at her, I saw that her eyes did not waver.
Dick's popularity steadily increased; lucrative commissions poured in upon him, and he settled down to such hard, methodical work, that I began to think he had forgotten the woman who had enmeshed him.
As I seated myself, and she poured me out a liqueur, I caught her glancing furtively at me under her long lashes.
He contracted typhoid while we were playing in San Francisco, and it terminated fatally."
You?" we both cried in amazement.
I-I was mad then.
Yet the wilful obliteration had utterly spoiled it.
"Still thinking of her?" I observed reproachfully.
Whenever he paid flying visits to London, however, he always looked me up, but, strangely enough, never mentioned Ethel. Nevertheless, I ascertained that they frequently met.
"And where is Oranmore?"
The black hair of the daughter of Perseis falls in profusion about her bare shoulders, and strays over her breast, but her features are hidden by a half mask of black silk.
A tender smile played about her lips.
It was foolish for us to have loved, therefore forget me.
"You will not!" she cried, clinging to me.
A glance was sufficient to recognise that the sprawly writing was Ethel's.
I heard no more, for they turned and left.
The girl he loved!
The fair model herself was charmed with it.
It is really too bad!" she said, pouting like a spoiled child.
Read that!"
"I shall think no more of her."
"Well, I should suggest that of Circe-the woman who broke men's hearts," I replied, mischievously.
"And you avenge yourself by reviling all of us.
The face was a lifelike portrait.
I confess that my frame of mind surprised me, inasmuch as I actually found myself still loving her.
Of the thousands who have gazed upon it in admiration, none knows the somewhat remarkable story connected with it.
"How cruel you are!" she said, with a touch of sadness.
Woman's vanity often outruns her natural diffidence, and the consciousness of her great beauty stifles the conscience of modesty.
I-I have something to tell you."
He was such a large hearted, honest fellow, that I felt quite pained when I anticipated the awakening that must inevitably come sooner or later.
"No, no I love him," she said in a fierce half whisper, adding, "Keep secret the fact that we loved one another, and I swear before Heaven I will be true to him.
"No," I said sternly.
At first I hesitated, but at length acquiesced.
"You shall see her before long." His gaze grew bright, soft, and vague, as one who catches glimpses of the floating garments of supernatural mysteries.
"It is a strange fancy of mine," she explained, when I had greeted her. "I'm sure the dress is very becoming-isn't it?" And she waved the goblet she was holding above her head.
"Ethel," I said gravely, taking her hand in mine, "you have fascinated Dick Carruthers, my friend; and you will treat him as you treated me."
"I will tell him."
"I approach your idol in the properly reverential spirit."
Yet, as she turned her beautiful face towards me, I was struck by the complete effect of physical and moral frailty that she presented.
Dazzled by her beauty, I sympathised with her, endeavoured to cheer her, and concluded by falling violently in love with her.
"Your pose is perfect, dear.
A stray copy of an English newspaper containing a notice of his work, which Dick picked up in a hotel, however, caused him to return.
I loved you; but I did not apprehend the consequence."
"For the present I will preserve silence," I answered, my heart softening towards her.
"To what do I owe the honour of this visit?"
Think of your actions on the day before you left me; how you took from that drawer a signed blank cheque, with which you drew six hundred pounds,--nearly all the money I possessed,--and then fled with your lover.
"Dead.
"But, after all, your apprehensions are groundless.
"You are too honourable for that.
A dry, grey day in March.
The success of "The Masked Circe" in last year's Royal Academy was incontestable, not only for the intrinsic beauty of the picture, but from the fact that the personal charms of a handsome woman were perpetuated without compromising her features.
"Dick!" she gasped.
Looking up from my work, I saw Ethel.
"Look!
Think no more of me.
"Well, what is it?" I asked, rather surprised.
I remembered the first time I saw Ethel Broughton, fully five years before.
He is a popular painter, and as handsome a man as ever had a picture "on the line."
It was a cold, formal note, merely a few lines of hurried scrawl, and read: "You are right.
I knew her, though I did not tell him so.
When I discovered that Dick Carruthers was wasting the very honest and ardent emotions of his heart at this feverish fairy's shrine, I resolved to take him aside, and, without admitting that I knew her, give him a verbal drubbing.
I was sorry that he was so infatuated.
Promise to keep my secret!"
The days went by.
When I had briefly acknowledged the compliment she paid me, she said-
The effect produced was startling, and none could have been more astonished at the result of my daubing than myself.
A scrap of conversation I overheard in the course of the afternoon, however, caused me to ponder.
Nevertheless, I was sorely puzzled.
He never reads his new romance to his friends, nor do his well wishers applaud in advance. Reviewers have first tilt at "advance copies," and very properly.
I did so, but he bit his moustache fiercely, and turned upon me.
Since that time they had apparently lived happily, and not a breath of scandal had besmirched her fair name.
In the months that followed, I visited the studio almost daily, and watched the growth of the picture.
In surprise I glanced up from my work of romance weaving on the following morning, and saw Dick, pale and agitated, standing at my elbow.
"She is worthless and vain; why make yourself miserable?"
Suddenly the scales fell from my eyes.
"Ethel!
He knew absolutely nothing of her past, and was quite ignorant that she had been a popular actress.
"For reasons of my own," she replied in a harsh, strained voice.
"At least I am honest.
He drivelled over a girl he loved, and was forever suggesting that I might take her as a character and drag her into the novel upon which I was engaged.
Visitors to the Academy know the picture.
Why?"
Spring came and went, but I saw very little of Dick.
I shall be able to assume that character well," she said, with a grim smile.
Your women are inevitably false and fickle.
The result of this interview was but natural.
A few moments later the door opened, and there was the rustle of a silken train.
"Ah!
The idea of placing a half mask upon the face suggested itself, and without delay I proceeded to carry it into effect.
The "Masked Circe" was pronounced one of the pictures of the year. Thousands admired it.
But I succeeded in turning the conversation into another channel.
I saw that he was haggard eyed and wild looking. From his conversation, I knew that time had not healed the wound in his heart.
An elderly man, evidently a foreigner, wearing the violet ribbon of the French Academy in his buttonhole, was standing with a young girl in the crowd around the easel.
"You are at least sensible, Ethel," I said.
"I-I cannot forget."
It is needless to refer to the smooth and uninterrupted course of our love.
The limit for sending in to the Academy was approaching; but Dick did not write, and I could only wonder vaguely where he was wandering.
Dick flung down his palette, and came forward to introduce me.
At that time I was writing numbers of dramatic criticisms, and I confess I used what weight my opinions possessed for the purpose of her advancement.
During the years that have gone I have many, many times wondered what had become of you, for in your writings I read plainly how soured and embittered you had become."
Pray sit down," I said coldly, motioning her to an armchair.
"Suppose I told him?
One day he drew a cabinet photograph carefully from his pocket, and placed it upon the blotting pad before me.
What nonsense to speak of it, when through your baseness I have been almost ruined.
If he marries me, he shall never have cause for regret-never!"
Circe, seated on a throne, with her back to a great circular mirror, presents a half draped figure of marvellous delicate colouring and beauty of outline.
"I shall never be able to thank you sufficiently, old chap, for touching up my daub.
"Forgive me, Harold," she said, with intense earnestness.
My object in coming this afternoon was to repay the money I-I borrowed." And she drew forth an envelope from her pocket and handed it to me.
Perhaps, however, you write from personal experience of the failings of my sex," she laughed.
That face!" the girl cried, when her eyes fell upon the canvas.
"You masked her, and it is only fair that you should have a word in the bargain.
I saw that words were of no avail.
She wore a soiled pink wrapper, her satin slippers were trodden down at heel, and she had a bottle of champagne at her elbow.
"Dinner will be ready almost immediately," he said.
A few words of excuse and explanation, and we left the Count, who, kneeling beside his wife and endeavouring to resuscitate her, was completely mystified at the strange recognition.
Come away, Zelie; let us go."
"It is gratifying to know that you recognise the impossibility of such an union."
I have been false to you.
That evening I called at Dick's house, but was informed by his housekeeper that he had packed his bag and departed, stating that he would not return for at least a month, perhaps longer.
"There are notes for six hundred pounds," she added, as I took it and felt the crisp paper inside.
"How did you obtain it?" I asked, hesitating to receive it.
Inquiries showed that the Count had met her while travelling in America, and had married her.
But, alas! those halcyon days were all too brief.
One hand holds aloft a golden wine goblet, and the other a tapering wand, while upon the tesselated pavement before the dais purple grapes and yellow roses have been strewn.
The studio of my old friend, Dick Carruthers, the man who painted it, is on Campden Hill, Kensington, within a few hundred yards of where I reside, and in the centre of an aesthetic artistic colony.
Bah!
"But I cannot promise that I will never tell him."
By the time you receive this I shall be on my way to New York; nevertheless, you will be always remembered by yours unworthily- Ethel." Bitter memories of the past overwhelmed me; but at last, growing impatient, and tossing the letters back into the drawer, I strove to forget.
She nodded, but did not reply.
Is that the way a woman shows her affection?"
A scene occurred between us-and we parted.
I have always been thankful that the happy writer of books has no such ordeal to face.
"Ah," she said, striving to suppress a sob, "Forgive me!
She pulled off her long gloves, and let her sealskin cape fall at her feet, while I put down my pen, and, rising, stood with my back to the fire.
From morn till eve on "Show Sunday," Campden Hill is always blocked by the carriages of the curious, and studios are besieged by fashionable crowds, whose chatter and laughter mingles pleasantly with the clinking of tea cups.
It was a great pity, I thought, that such a fine work should not be exhibited.
"I have earned it honestly, every penny," she replied.
"Welcome, old fellow!" Dick cried, turning to shake hands with me. "Behold my Circe!" and he waved his hand in the direction of his model. "Ethel will not sit for any other subject.
Poor Dick!
He burst into my room unceremoniously one morning, still attired in his travelling ulster.
You may be friends, but he shall never marry you."
"Last night I told you that a woman had embittered my life.
"Not at all.
When I entered, Dick was standing before his easel, pipe in mouth and crayon in hand, busily sketching; while on the raised "throne" before him sat Ethel, radiant and beautiful.
"Circe" was voted an unqualified success.
"It is true I once knew a woman who proved false and infamous," I replied, with some emphasis.
Please don't alter it," urged the artist; who, advancing to his easel again, continued the free, rapid outline.
So much for their doctrines; as for the teachers themselves, he found them "carnal and loquacious, full of insane pride."
He had a gift of making true and faithful friends, a charm in conversation that drew his young companions and even older men to his side.
He then turned to the Holy Scriptures, but they appeared to him inferior in style to Cicero.
There was something strangely sympathetic and attractive about Augustine.
She would kiss their sores for very pity as she washed and dressed them, and their faces grew bright at her coming.
MONICA LIVED IN THE DAYS OF HER WIDOWHOOD, AND HOW SHE PUT ALL HER TRUST IN GOD
To impose on Christians they used Christian words for doctrines that were thoroughly unchristian.
It seemed to him perfectly simple; it was unnecessary, he found, to ask a single explanation.
Often, indeed, she went cold and hungry that they might be clothed and fed.
It was said of her after her death that no one had such a gift of helping others as she.
For the rest, continued Romanianus, as an old friend of Patricius he had the right to befriend his son, and Monica must grant him the privilege of acting a father's part to Augustine until he was fairly launched in life.
Romanianus divined her anxiety, and hastened to set it at rest.
His noble heart, his strong intelligence, would bring him back to God.
You it was who, when I had the sorrow to lose my father, comforted me by your friendship, helped me with your advice, and assisted me with your fortune."
This was laid on the grave, after which the faithful would partake of what they had brought, while they thought and spoke of the noble lives of God's servants who had gone before.
And yet, and yet ... her heart sank as she thought of graces wasted, of conscience trampled underfoot, of light rejected.
CHAPTER six
His was not the nature to find contentment in the things of earth.
Faith and virtue were alone weak and faint in that soul that could so ill do without them; but to her they were the one essential thing; the rest did not matter.
It seemed such a natural name to give her, for she was a mother to them all, and gave them a mother's love.
This doctrine was convenient to one who could not find the strength to break with his bad habits.
If Monica would befriend his boy, they would be quits.
"They incessantly repeated to me, 'Truth, truth,' but there was no truth in them.
To some of the poor creatures, friendless slaves as they often were, who had known little sympathy or tenderness in their hard lives, it was a revelation of Christianity which taught them more than hours of preaching could have done.
It was the same with geometry, music, every science he took up.
They called her "mother."
Who would not be seduced by such promises, especially if he were a proud, contentious young man, thirsting for truth, such as they then found me?"
He was at the head of his class in rhetoric.
In Him she would trust, and in Him alone. He was infinite in mercy, and strong to save.
This would settle the question of lodging.
Her love of prayer, too, could now find full scope.
A more worldly mother than Monica would have been thoroughly proud of her son.
The great charm of Manicheism to Augustine was that it taught that a man was not responsible for his sins.
There were certain good works which the Church gave to Christian widows to perform.
Its followers formed a secret society, with signs and passwords, grades and initiations.
He had even greater gifts, it seemed, than eloquence, feeling, and wit.
She scarcely tasted of her offering herself, but gave it all away to the poor.
"Thou knowest, Honoratus, that for this reason alone did we fall into the hands of these men-namely, that they professed to free us from all errors, and bring us to God by pure reason alone, without that terrible principle of authority.
She would gather the orphan children at her knee to teach them the truths of their Faith.
Every morning found her in her place in church for the Holy Sacrifice; every evening she was there again, silent, absorbed in God.
"Such was my mind," he sums up later, looking back on this period of his life, "so weighed down, so blinded by the flesh, that I was myself unknown to myself."
She needed little, it is true, for herself, but there was Augustine.
Augustine, eager to make acquaintance with this wonderful work, procured it at once and read it.
But there was other work besides that at the hospital.
"My pride," he writes, "despised the manner in which the things are said, and my intelligence could not discover the hidden sense.
These devoted women succeeded each other at intervals in their task of washing and attending to the sick, watching by their beds and cleaning their rooms.
"You it was, Romanianus," wrote Augustine in his Confessions, "who, when I was a poor young student in Carthage, opened to me your house, your purse, and still more your heart.
And yet in her heart of hearts there was a deep conviction that no sad news of his life at Carthage could shake.
It was a happy moment for Monica when her turn came to serve the sick.
It was a custom of the time on the feasts of saints and martyrs to make a pilgrimage to their tombs, with a little basket of food and wine.
He was born to something higher.
There were the poor to be helped, the hungry to be fed, the naked to be clothed.
This extraordinary heresy had begun in the East, and had spread all over the civilized world.
At His feet, and at His feet alone, Monica poured out her tears and her sorrow.
The custom was abolished not long after on account of the abuses which had arisen, but Monica observed it to the end.
Patricius had not much in the way of worldly goods to leave to his wife.
It was at this moment that he came in contact with the Manicheans, whose errors attracted him at once.
"One thing cooled my ardour," he goes on to say; "it was that the Name of Christ was not there, and this Name, by Thy mercy, Lord, of Thy Son, my Saviour, my heart had drawn in with my mother's milk, and kept in its depths, and every doctrine where this Name did not appear, fluent, elegant, and truth like though it might be, could not master me altogether."
It was so profound, he said, that few could understand it, even with the help of the most learned professors.
Augustine, who remained amongst them for nine years, thus describes them when writing to a friend:
He had promised that He would never fail those who put their trust in Him.
Licentius was to feel its effects more than once.
"If I am a mother to these motherless ones," she would say to herself, "He will have mercy and give me back my boy; if I teach them to know and love Him as a Father, He will watch over my son."
This young genius of nineteen only discovered there were difficulties in the way when he had to teach others, and realized how hard it was to make them understand what was so exceedingly simple to himself.
The hospitals, for instance, were entirely in their hands. They were small as yet, built according to the needs of the moment from the funds of the faithful, and held but few patients.
His master had spoken to him of a certain treatise of Aristotle which he would soon be called upon to study.
With others she was serene and hopeful as of old, even joyous, always ready to help and comfort.
When they were very poor, she would keep them in her own house, feed them at her own table, and clothe them with her own hands.
The place where she knelt was often wet with her tears; the time passed by unheeded. Patricius, her husband, was safe in God's hands; but Augustine, her eldest born, her darling, in what dark paths was he wandering?
Perhaps the most remarkable thing about them was their hatred of the Church.
No, there was no hope anywhere but with God.
He had a child of his own, a young son called Licentius.
Augustine, meanwhile, at Carthage, was justifying all the hopes that had been formed of him.
For what else induced me to abandon the faith of my childhood and follow these men for almost nine years, but their assertion that we were terrified by superstition into a faith blindly imposed upon our reason, while they urged no one to believe until the truth was fully discussed and proved?
That was what the Manicheans promised.
Would it be possible for her, even if she practised the strictest economy, to keep him at Carthage, where he was doing so well?
The gratitude of both mother and son towards this generous friend and benefactor lasted throughout their lives.
She had a wonderful gift for giving people courage; Patricius had noticed that before.
Monica was almost glad to see her son depart.
She had used to be violent and headstrong like himself, resentful and implacable in her dislikes, but now she was more like Monica than like him.
He was even ashamed, when they boasted of their misdoings, to seem more innocent than they, and would pretend to be worse than he really was, lest his prestige should suffer in their eyes.
That was Monica's way, though; her sweetness and patience seemed to be catching.
She seemed close to them still in the light of that wonderful new Faith, and to be waiting for them in their everlasting home.
The sorrows of the past were all forgotten in the joy of the present, that happy union at the feet of Christ.
It was laden with pears, but they were not very good; they did not care to eat them, and threw them to the pigs.
He had discovered that it would cost a good deal more than he had at first supposed, and it was difficult to see where the money was to come from.
The beautiful prayers of the Church had gone down with the departing soul to the threshold of the new life, and had followed it into eternity.
She had shown him the beauty of goodness and made him love it.
The old life, with all its stains, had passed from him in those cleansing waters; the new life was at hand.
He supposed it was because she was so full of sympathy, and always made allowances.
The want of principle and of honour in most of them disgusted him in his better moments; nevertheless he was content to enjoy himself in their company.
Her tears fell on his face, her loving arms supported him; her sweet voice, broken with weeping, spoke words of hope and comfort.
Augustine was sure to bring glory on his native town, said Romanianus; it was an honour to be allowed to help in his education.
Patricius watched them together, and marvelled at the effects of the grace of Baptism.
Augustine was eager for knowledge and eager for enjoyment.
His mother was failing fast; the end could not be far off.
She had passed away smiling, with their hands in hers, and the name of Jesus on her lips.
He tells us how he went one night with a band of these wild companions to rob the fruit tree of a poor neighbour.
With the simplicity and trustfulness of a child, he looked to her for guidance, and did all that she desired.
The bloody combats between men and beasts, the gladiatorial shows that delighted the romans, were free to all who chose to frequent the amphitheatre of Carthage.
There was neither discipline nor order in the schools.
The sum required was offered with such delicacy that it could not be declined.
They went by the name of "smashers" or "upsetters," from their habit of raiding the schools of professors whose teaching they did not approve, and breaking everything on which they could lay hands.
There was the wild excitement, too, of the daring; the fear that they might be caught in the act.
To go on trying was possible even for him, although he knew he could not always promise himself success.
She had been his angel, he said; he owed all his joy to her.
Self conquest was the hardest task that he had ever undertaken, and sometimes he almost lost heart, and was inclined to give it up altogether.
But Monica did not know Carthage.
Then Monica would gently remind him that with God's help the hardest things were possible, and they would kneel and pray together, and Patricius would take heart again for the fight.
His mother had already shown him the joys of a Christian deathbed.
Hard work and the pursuit of wisdom might steady his wild nature and bring him back to God.
The Christian ideals of life and conduct were new to him as yet; the old pagan ways seemed only natural.
Monica was devoting herself heart and soul to the old woman, who clung to her with tender affection, and was never happy in her absence.
They were young men of fashion who were capable of anything, and who were careful to let others know it.
All his efforts had not succeeded in saving the sum required for his first year at Carthage.
It was not schoolboy greed that prompted the theft, but the pure delight of doing evil, of tricking the owner of the garden.
It was at this moment that Romanianus, a wealthy and honourable citizen of Tagaste, who knew the poverty of his friend, came forward generously and put his purse at Patricius's disposal.
He was careful to keep such escapades a secret from his mother, but Monica was uneasy, knowing what might be expected from the companions her son had chosen.
Catechumen though he was, the old temper would often flash out still.
"My God," he cried in later years, "with what bitter gall didst Thou in Thy great mercy sprinkle those pleasures of mine!" He could not forget; and at Tagaste his mother was weeping and praying for her son.
If it was second only to Rome for its culture and its schools, it almost rivalled Rome in its corruption.
His own feet were not firm enough in the ways of Christ to enable him to stretch a steadying hand to another.
Patricius prayed with her; he understood at last.
Every day the germs of a noble nature that had lain so long dormant within him were gaining strength and life.
They treated new comers with coarse brutality, but Augustine seems in some manner to have escaped their enmity.
Patricius was altogether unable to give Augustine the help that he needed.
No, she must not grieve, he told her; the parting would be but for a little while, the meeting for all eternity.
He thanked her for all that she had been to him, all that she had shown him, all that she had done for him.
He did not deceive himself. He spoke of his approaching death to Monica, and asked her to help him to make a worthy preparation for Baptism, which he desired to receive as soon as possible.
But Monica's happiness was to be short-lived, for it seemed that Patricius would soon rejoin his mother.
It was her only hope now, as with prayers and tears she besought of Him to watch over her son.
The ceremony over, he turned to his wife and smiled.
He was standing, it is true, on the threshold of the Church, but her teaching was not yet clear to him.
Perhaps a certain dignity in the young man's bearing, or perhaps his brilliant gifts, won their respect, for he surpassed them all in intelligence, and speedily outstripped them in class.
There was but one cause for sadness-Patricius's health was failing.
And then she seemed to think-to be sure, even-that if one went on trying, failures did not matter, God did not mind them; and that was a very comforting reflection for poor weak people like himself.
On the threshold of that other world Monica bade farewell to her husband, and one more soul that she had won for Christ went out into a glorious eternity.
She was like the sunshine, penetrating everywhere with its light and warmth.
A wonderful peace possessed him.
Was that indeed his mother, he asked himself, that gentle, patient old woman, so thoughtful for others, so ready to give up her own will?
He was scarcely likely to be astonished at the fact that his son's boyhood was rather like what his own had been.
Every day his soul was opening more and more to the understanding of spiritual things, while Monica watched the transformation with a heart that overflowed with gratitude and love.
The old boyish laziness had given way to a real zeal for learning and thirst after knowledge. The idle life at home was certainly the worst thing for him.
Such plays as the romans delighted in, impossible to describe, were acted in the theatre.
Once more he asked her to forgive him all the pain he had caused her, all that he had made her suffer.
There were moments when he loathed it all, and longed for the old life, with its innocent pleasures; but it is hard to turn back on the downhill road.
It was her love, her patience, that had done it all.
The wealthier students gloried in their bad reputation.
He had not much intercourse with any families beyond that circle; his horror of late hours, and large dinner parties, made him unfit for any acquaintance but such as would visit him on his own terms.
Ours are all apple tarts.
I do not advise the custard.
I do not think it could disagree with you."
Had it taken place only once a year, it would have been a grievance.
CHAPTER three
"But you must have found it very damp and dirty.
That was your doing, papa.
You got Hannah that good place.
CHAPTER one
I wish you may not catch cold."
"Dirty, sir!
'tis a sad business."
Not a speck on them."
How did you all behave?
"Poor Miss Taylor!--I wish she were here again.
I wanted them to put off the wedding."
What a horrible idea!
"The carriage!
"I am very glad I did think of her.
What are you proud of?
All looked up to them.
He will be able to tell her how we all are."
"My dearest papa!
Who cried most?"
She would be very glad to stay."
A complete change of life became desirable.
mr Woodhouse told me of it.
He quitted the militia and engaged in trade, having brothers already established in a good way in London, which afforded him a favourable opening.
CHAPTER two
He had been at the pains of consulting mr Perry, the apothecary, on the subject.
Having pecked his brothers and sisters, he tried to do the same to his playmates, the ducklings, goslings, and young turkeys, and was so disagreeable that all the fowls hated him.
That made Strut mad, and he resolved to crow, even if he killed himself doing it.
Peep found a little hole into the meal room, and slipped in, full of joy at the sight of the bags, boxes, and bins.
Have a drop of water!
'Hold your tongue, you ugly little thing, and don't talk to me.
Perching himself on the beam, he tried his best, but only a droll 'cock a doodle doo' came of it, and all the chicks laughed.
No one knew what had become of her till some days later, when she was found dead in the meal, with her poor little claws sticking straight up as if imploring help.
Old Aunt Cockletop told her that she didn't, and predicted that 'those poor dears would come to bad ends.'
'Aunty told me not to run.
Peck was a glutton, eating everything she could find, and often making herself ill by gobbling too fast, and forgetting to eat a little gravel to help digest her food.
'Never run away from anything, but face danger and conquer it, like a brave chick,' said the old biddy, as she went clucking through the grass, with her gray turban wagging in the wind.
'Fits, ma'am,' answered Doctor Drake, who just then waddled by.
Downy and Snowball soon followed; for the two sweet little things would swing on the burdock leaves that grew over the brook.
One day, a pair of bantams arrived,--pretty little white birds, with red crests and nice yellow feet.
For some time after this, mrs Cluck kept her three remaining little ones close to her side, watching over them with maternal care, till they were heartily tired of her anxious cluckings.
Having taken all she wanted, she ran back to the barn, and was innocently catching gnats when her mamma came out of the hay mow with a loud.
Faster and faster fell the snow darker and darker grew the night, and colder and colder became poor Blot's little feet as she waded through the drifts.
My mother will be glad to see you,' said the kit rubbing her soft white face against Blot's little black breast.
They were very happy together till Thanksgiving drew near, when a dreadful pestilence seemed to sweep through the farm yard; for turkeys, hens, ducks, and geese fell a prey to it, and were seen by their surviving relatives featherless, pale, and stiff, borne away to some unknown place whence no fowl returned.
Speckle had hopped away from a toad with a startled chirp, which caused aunt to utter that remark.
What's the matter with the chick?' cried mrs Cluck, in great alarm.
Too stiff and weak to fly up, she crept as close as possible to the bright glow which shone across the door step, and with a shiver put her little head under her wing, trying to forget hunger, weariness, and the bitter cold, and wait patiently for morning.
Taste this mint leaf!
She'--there Peck stopped suddenly, rolled up her eyes, and began to stagger about as if she was tipsy.
Chanty thought he could beat mr Bantam easily, he was so small, and invited him to fight. mr b declined.
'You'll fall and get hurt,' said his sister Blot.
So he tried every day to fly and crow, and at last managed to get up; then how he did strut and rustle his feathers, while his playmates sat below and watched him.
There never was a prouder mamma than Madam Cluck when she led forth her family of eight downy little chicks.
'Yes, ma'am,' chirped the chickens; and then as she went rustling into the hay mow, they began to run about and enjoy themselves with all their might.
He gave an angry cluck, flapped his wings, and tried again.
The words had hardly left her beak, when a shadow above made her look up, give one loud croak of alarm, and then scuttle away, as fast as legs and wings could carry her.
The chicks stopped scratching and peeping, and sat in a row to hear Strut crow.
'Nothing, ma'am; it's fatal.' And the doctor waddled on to visit Dame Partlet's son, who was ill of the pip.
Alas, alas, for poor Strut! he leaned so far forward in his frantic effort to get a big crow out, that he toppled over and fell bump on the hard barn floor, killing himself instantly.
'Don't go out of the barn, children.
Be quiet, down there, and hear if I can't do it as well as daddy.'
Peck meanwhile got into mischief also; for, in her hunt for something good to eat, she strayed into the sheep shed, and finding some salt, ate as much as she liked, not knowing that salt is bad for hens.
In the morning few remained, and Blot felt that she was a forlorn orphan, a thought which caused her to sit with her head under her wing for several hours, brooding over her sad lot, and longing to join her family in some safe and happy land, where fowls live in peace.
The tragedy began with Chanty, who was the boldest little cockadoodle who ever tried to crow.
I'm going to lay an egg, and can't look after you just now,' said their mother one day.
'Now I'm safe; thank you very much.
'I live at the red farm house over the hill, only I don't know which road to take.'
don't flap and stagger so!
It was a dreadful blow to mrs Cluck; and Aunt Cockletop didn't show herself for a whole day after that story was known, for every fowl in the yard twitted her with the difference between her preaching and her practice.
What a nice time Speckle did have, to be sure; for the grasshoppers were lively and fat, and aunt was in an unusually amiable mood.
Before he had a feather to his bit of a tail, Chanty began to fight, and soon was known as the most quarrelsome chick in the farm yard.
'My child, my child!
'Where is Peep?' asked mrs Cluck.
Sam never saw her, but shut down the cover of the bin as he passed, and left poor Peep to die.
Come at once, for night is coming on, and the snow will soon be too deep for us,' said Blot.
Here was every variety, from the great ugly chimpanzee to the funny little fellows who played like boys, and cut up all sorts of capers.
He was so exactly the colour of the bare bough, and lay so still, I had not seen him till he came to take a look at me.
The funny expression of his face was irresistible, and I enjoyed seeing him very much, and gave him a bun to comfort him when I went away.
One poor little chap had lost the curly end of his tail,--I'm afraid the gray one bit it off,--and kept trying to swing like the others, forgetting that the strong, curly end was what he held on with.
He wouldn't touch his dinner, but lay down near her, with the lump between his paws, as if guarding it for her; and there I left him patiently waiting, in spite of his hunger, till his mate could share it with him.
This was their dinner, and as they were fed but once a day they were ravenous.
I hope he hasn't got out,' I said to myself, thinking of a story I read once of a person in a menagerie, who turned suddenly and saw a great boa gliding towards him.
He had politely tried to tell me to clear the way, which I certainly had done with all speed. Picking myself out of the hedge I walked beside him, examining his clumsy feet and peering up at his small, intelligent eye.
The great polar bear lived next door, and spent his time splashing in and out of a pool of water, or sitting on a block of ice, panting, as if the mild spring day was blazing midsummer.
He was kind enough to take a promenade and show me his size, which seemed immense, as he stretched himself, and then knotted his rough grayish body into a great loop, with the fiery eyed head in the middle.
One of the curiosities was a sea cow, who lived in a tank of salt water, and came at the keeper's call to kiss him, and flounder on its flippers along the margin of the tank after a fish.
I was walking toward the camel's pagoda, when, all of a sudden, a long, dark, curling thing came over my shoulder, and I felt warm breath in my face.
All looked and acted so like cats that I wasn't at all surprised to hear one of them purr when the keeper scratched her head.
As a contrast to the wild beasts, I went to see the monkeys, who lived in a fine large house all to themselves.
Suddenly the lions began to roar, the tigers to snarl, and all to get very much excited about something, sniffing at the openings, thrusting their paws through the bars, and lashing their tails impatiently.
The tigers were rushing about, as tigers usually are; some creeping noiselessly to and fro, some leaping up and down, and some washing their faces with their velvet paws.
Such roars and howls and cries as arose while the man went slowly down the line, gave one a good idea of the sounds to be heard in Indian forests and jungles.
He looked very unhappy, and I thought it a pity that they didn't invent a big refrigerator for him.
He was not one of the largest kind, but I was quite satisfied, and left him to his dinner of rabbits, which I hadn't the heart to stay and see him devour alive.
I did not blame him, for the poor fellow was homesick, doubtless, for his own wide prairies and the free life he had lost.
He was a cross old party, and sat huddled up in the straw, scowling at every one, like an ill tempered old bachelor.
He would run up the bare boughs, and give a jump, expecting to catch and swing, but the lame tail wouldn't hold him, and down he'd go, bounce on to the straw.
At first he'd sit and stare about him, as if much amazed to find himself there; then he'd scratch his little round head and begin to scold violently, which seemed to delight the other monkeys; and, finally, he'd examine his poor little tail, and appear to understand the misfortune which had befallen him.
I liked this lion very much, for, though the biggest, he was very gentle, and had a noble face.
One lioness was ill, and lay on her bed, looking very pensive, while her mate moved restlessly about her, evidently anxious to do something for her, and much afflicted by her suffering.
It was a very loud and large purr, but no fireside pussy could have done it better, and every one laughed at the sound.
Its eyes were lovely, so dark and soft and liquid; but its mouth was not pretty, and I declined one of the damp kisses which it was ready to dispense at word of command.
I sat watching them a long time, longing to let some of the wild things out for a good run, they seemed so unhappy barred in those small dens.
I couldn't imagine what the trouble was, till, far down the line, I saw a man with a barrowful of lumps of raw meat.
One little leopard was better bred than the others, for he went up on a shelf in the cage, and ate his dinner in a quiet, proper manner, which was an example to the rest.
The snake house came next, and I went in, on my way to visit the rhinoceros family.
The tigers snarled and fought and tore and got so savage I was very grateful that they were safely shut up.
I never knew before what handsome birds they were; not graceful, but with such snowy plumage, tinged with pale pink and faint yellow.
These snakes I found very interesting, only they got under their blankets and wouldn't come out, and I wasn't allowed to poke them; so I missed seeing several of the most curious.
I rather like snakes, since I had a tame green one, who lived under the door step, and would come out and play with me on sunny days.
Douglas, Douglas, Tender and true.
As I stood wondering if the big worm could be under the little flat blanket before me, the branch began to move all at once, and with a start, I saw a limb swing down to stare at me with the boa's glittering eyes.
The lions ate in dignified silence, all but my favourite, who carried his share to his sick mate, and by every gentle means in his power tried to make her eat.
One lady had a fright, for the wind blew the end of her shawl within reach of a tiger's great claw, and he clutched it, trying to drag her nearer.
So I threw him some fresh clover, and went on to the pelicans.
The first thing I saw was a great American bison; and I was so glad to meet with any one from home, that I'd have patted him with pleasure if he had shown any cordiality toward me.
I'm very sure he winked at me, as if enjoying the joke, and kept poking his trunk into my pocket, hoping to find something eatable.
There were pretty spotted leopards, panthers, and smaller varieties of the same species.
It was very like a seal, only much larger, and had four fins instead of two.
As I took a last look at his fine old face, I named him Douglas, and walked away, humming to myself the lines of the ballad,--
"No, I think she just wants to be by herself.
"But, in this life, things seldom turn out as we plan.
She hated to refuse the simple wish of this pleasant stranger, yet how was she to comply with it, considering the presence of mrs Collingwood, and the almost unexplainable position of herself and Cynthia?
I used to know the people who lived here-very well indeed-and I have been wondering whether the house was still in their possession.
Then came the crisis in the country's affairs, and the Confederacy was declared.
"If you care to look around the drawing room, you will be most welcome," she announced politely.
He accepted the invitation gratefully, and entered with her.
I have always possessed the most violent temper a mortal had to struggle with.
Her eyes were wide and staring, her features almost gray in color.
That afternoon, shortly after he arrived, we had our interview.
They could see that she was much moved, and had evidently been crying.
"Oh! did you know the family, the-the-"
"I do not remember any one named Calthorpe, and I scarcely feel that I can see a stranger now.
His iron gray hair was crisply curly, and his dark eyes twinkled out from under bushy gray brows.
I was a Southerner, but my husband came from the North, and brought me up North here to live.
I do not know, of course, why the house is open.
It was fine of you, Cynthia, to send her up alone!
I was almost like an inmate." He began to wander slowly about the room, examining the pictures.
What would he think of it all!
"Then you must have known young mr Fairfax very well," suggested Joyce. "That's he, on the right in the picture." The stranger eyed her curiously.
"Yes, I knew them-quite intimately.
And I felt sure that he would see things differently when he was older.
I came often.
"Arthur- Arthur Calthorpe!" he faltered.
As his heart was so set on it, I couldn't deny him, thinking that even this would make little difference in the end.
The fact is," the stranger went on, "I was passing here and noticed this outer door open, which seemed a little queer.
Perhaps people are-are about to purchase it."
"If you will give me your name, I will ask if-that person would like to see you."
"These candles-everything-everything just the same as though it were yesterday!"
"That is-no, the house is empty, except just-just to day!"
He came several times, knocked at my door, and begged me to see him, but I would not. Heaven forgive me!-- I would not!
I always hated it-this Northern life-and, though I loved my husband dearly, I hated his devotion to it.
THE STRANGER AT THE DOOR
"I guess I'd better go," said Joyce.
"There is one of the family here to day on-on business," she said, at last.
At length they heard her coming slowly down, and presently she reentered the drawing room.
In front of the old, square, open piano he paused again, and fingered the silk scarf that had, at some long ago date, been thrown carelessly upon it.
But I little knew him!
But we must not be inhospitable.
"But I have been told a good deal about them."
Some one has seen it open, and has stopped to inquire if everything is all right." She hurried away to the front door, and, after an effort, succeeded in pulling it open.
"You must be very well acquainted with the house!"
"There are some things, however, that perhaps you do not know, and, after what you have done for me, you deserve to.
I planned that when they were both old enough, they should marry in the South and live there-and my husband and I with them.
At the first glance, however, he started back slightly, as with a shock of surprise.
They wondered nervously what she was going to say.
Joyce was, for a moment, tongue tied with perplexity.
I was married when I was a very young girl-only seventeen.
"Did you often come here?" inquired Joyce.
They regarded each other with mutual surprise.
"I think I did.
CHAPTER fifteen
"That's it, then.
"Collingwoods!" he supplemented, with his twinkling smile.
Tell me, are you a-a relative?" This confused Joyce anew.
My little girl died before she was three; and I had scarcely become reconciled to this grief when my husband was also taken from me.
"But perhaps you can inform me-is any one living in this house at present?"
Might I, perhaps, if it would not be intruding, come in just a moment to look once more at the old place?
"There never was a sweetheart like this mother fair of mine!--"
At last, however, she came to them, and sat down once more between them on the sofa.
They drew toward each other unconsciously, as though moving in a dream.
A man-a complete stranger to her-stood outside.
If I had-" Just at this point, they were all startled by a loud knock, coming from the direction of the front door.
"My babies!" they heard her murmur unconsciously, aloud.
The stranger gazed at her with a fixed look.
The two girls, who had been watching this scene with amazement unutterable, saw the strange pair gaze, for one long moment, into each other's eyes.
"Oh! er-I see!
"Why, no!" replied Joyce, rather confusedly.
That is," he added hastily, seeing her hesitate, "only if it would be entirely convenient!
mrs Collingwood remained a long time up stairs,--so long, indeed, that the girls began to be rather uneasy, fearing that she had fainted, or perhaps was ill, or overcome-they knew not what.
He was tall, straight and robust, though rather verging on the elderly.
I really don't believe I'd have thought of it."
And in those earlier years, when I got into a rage, it blinded me to everything else, to every other earthly consideration.
So I centered all my hopes on my son-on Fairfax.
We never agreed about those questions.
"I wished to send him to a Southern college, but he begged me to send him to Harvard.
"Do you think we ought to go up?" asked Cynthia, anxiously.
"Perhaps she needs help."
It seemed to be untenanted." At his mention of knowing the family, Joyce looked him over with considerably more interest.
"An unhappy family!" was his only comment, and he continued his tour around the room.
She did not speak to them at once, but went and stood by the mantel, looking up long and earnestly at the portrait of the twins.
"These frizzle headed females," continued the circular, "are trying to make your wives and daughters as rebellious and unreasonable as they are themselves; but no man of sense will permit a woman to influence his vote.
So the matter was left, for the time; and as if to verify Beth's suspicions Eliza was seen to leave the grounds after dusk and meet mr Hopkins in the lane.
During this oration Beth happened to glance up at the house, and her sharp eyes detected the maid, Eliza, standing shielded behind the half closed blind of an upper window and listening to, as well as watching, the proceedings below.
They needed more school houses for their children, and many other things which he hoped to provide as their Representative.
Every woman who attended the fete is now linked with us as an ally, and every one of them will resent this foolish circular."
Yet the people tamely submitted to this imposition because they knew no way to avoid it.
When mr Forbes began his campaign to restore the homesteads to their former beauty and dignity, a cry was raised against him.
"Except her looks," added Beth.
After luncheon began the speech making, interspersed with music by the band.
It had been a great day for the families of the neighboring farmers, and they drove homeward in the late afternoon full of enthusiasm over the royal manner in which they had been entertained and admiration for the girls who had provided the fun and feasting.
There had been no loss of dignity by any one of the three, and their evident refinement, as well as their gentleness and good humor, had until now protected them from any reproach.
"If I'm not much mistaken, mr Hopkins has thrown a boomerang.
"She's the living image of mrs Rogers."
mr Hopkins had therefore become so enraged that, against the advice of his friends, he issued a circular sneering at "Women in Politics." The newspapers having been subsidized by the opposition so early in the game, mr Hopkins had driven to employ the circular method of communicating with the voters.
It was folly to elect any man who would forget that duty and promote only his own interests through the position of power to which the people had appointed him.
Forbes, who never earned a dollar in his life, but inherited his money, is trying to take the dollars out of the pockets of the farmers by depriving them of the income derived by selling spaces for advertising signs.
Scarcely a day passed now that his corps of distributors did not leave some of his literature at every dwelling in the district.
This much mr Forbes has already done for you, and he will now tell you what else, if he is elected, he proposes to do."
He even attributed to them more than they deserved, for Uncle John's telling activities were so quietly conducted that he was personally lost sight of entirely by mr Hopkins.
Because of the activity of the opposing candidates every voter in the district had become more or less interested in the fight, and people were taking one side or the other with unusual earnestness.
Kenneth then took the platform and was welcomed with a hearty cheer.
Therefore they are going to vote for the Honorable Erastus Hopkins for Representative." Then followed an estimate of the money paid the farmers of the district by the advertisers during the past five years, amounting to several thousands of dollars in the aggregate.
And Uncle john was right.
The most she can do is to report our movements to mr Hopkins, and there's no great harm in that."
The farmers can't eat beauty; they want money.
I feared something like it when you insisted on taking a hand in the game."
Let's think it over carefully before we act."
I'd like to study her a little."
But they laughed at him and at mr Hopkins, and declared they were not at all offended.
"It is probably a mere coincidence.
"It was absurd to connect her with Lucy Rogers," observed Kenneth, "for there is nothing in her character to remind one of the unhappy girl."
His tirade against the girls was neither convincing nor in good taste. He asked the voters if they were willing to submit to "petticoat government," and permit a "lot of boarding school girls, with more boldness than modesty" to dictate the policies of the community.
The campaign was now getting hot.
The old butler was a general in his way, and in view of the fact that the staff of servants at Elmhurst was insufficient to cope with such a throng, he allowed Louise to impress several farmers' daughters into service, and was able to feed everyone without delay and in an abundant and satisfactory manner.
They read: "Hopkins, the Man of the Times, is the Champion of the Signs of the Times.
Her first impulse was to denounce the maid at once, and have her discharged; but the time was not opportune, so she waited until the festivities were ended.
She called attention to the fact that this campaign was important because it promised more beautiful and attractive houses for the farmers and townsmen alike.
Hopkins is willing to meet Forbes before the public at any time and place he may select, to settle this argument in joint debate."
Within two days every farmer had received a notice that mr Forbes would meet mr Hopkins at the Fairview Opera House on Saturday afternoon to debate the question as to whether advertising signs brought good or evil to the community.
The circular ended in this way: "Hopkins challenges Forbes to deny these facts.
"Good!" exclaimed shrewd Miss Patsy, when she read this circular.
The lawn fete was a tremendous success, and every farmer's wife was proud of her satin badge bearing the monogram: "W.
They conversed together a few moments, and then the maid calmly returned and went to her room.
Louise made the preliminary address, and, although her voice was not very strong, the silent attention of her hearers permitted her to be generally understood.
Indeed, there were more kindly thoughts expressed for the inhabitants of Elmhurst than had ever before been heard in a single day in the history of the county, and the great and the humble seemed more closely drawn together.
We painted out all the signs in this section at our own expense, that you might see how much more beautiful your homes are without them.
That was what a Representative was for-to represent his people.
mr Hopkins was not greatly pleased that his challenge had been accepted.
"Now that we know her secret," she said, "the girl cannot cause us more real harm, and there may be a way to circumvent this unscrupulous Hopkins and turn the incident to our own advantage.
The next day mr Hopkins scattered flaring hand bills over the district which were worded in a way designed to offset any advantage his opponent had gained from the lawn fete of the previous day.
CHAPTER thirteen
So we gave them an object lesson.
They have merely gone to work in a business like manner and used their wits and common sense in educating the voters.
The girls accepted the challenge at once.
"Then keep her, my dear," decided Kenneth.
He modestly assured them that a Representative in the State Legislature could accomplish much good for his district if he honestly desired to do so.
He was much incensed against the girls who were working for Kenneth Forbes, for he realized that they were proving an important factor in the campaign.
When the last guest had departed Beth got her cousins and Kenneth together and told them of her discovery of the spy.
p l," and the words: "FORBES FOR REPRESENTATIVE."
He had imagined that the Forbes party would ignore it and leave him the prestige of crowing over his opponent's timidity.
"I'm sorry," said Kenneth, "that you girls should be forced to endure this.
But this was because the farmers did not understand how much this reform meant to them.
Certain edibles, such as charlotte russe, Spanish cream, wine jellies and mousses, to say nothing of the caviars and anchovies, were wholly unknown to them; but they ate the dainties with a wise disregard of their inexperience and enjoyed them immensely.
But he remembered how easily he had subdued Kenneth at the school house meeting before the nominations, and had no doubt of his ability to repeat the operation.
We believe that none of you will ever care to allow advertising signs on your property again, and that the quiet refinement of this part of the country will induce many other places to follow our example, until advertisers are forced to confine themselves to newspapers, magazines and circulars, their only legitimate channels.
It is a disgrace to this district that mr Forbes allows his girlish campaign to be run by a lot of misses who should be at home darning stockings; or, if they were not able to do that, practicing their music lessons."
"I know I can trust your word."
And-dash it-old chap, give him these gold sleeve buttons: it's all I've got." He covered his face with his black hands, over which the tears rolled and made furrows of white. mr Macmurdo had also occasion to take off his silk night cap and rub it across his eyes.
I told him he was a liar and a coward, and knocked him down and thrashed him."
I gave up everything I had to her.
Then Rawdon took out of his pocket the little pocket book which he had discovered in Becky's desk, and from which he drew a bundle of the notes which it contained.
"Is it only suspicion, you know, or-or what is it?
In a postscript the Captain stated that he had in his possession a bank note for a large amount, which Colonel Crawley had reason to suppose was the property of the Marquis of Steyne.
Even the hundred pounds that Jane took you last night were promised to my lawyer to morrow morning, and the want of it will put me to great inconvenience.
"That he did, old boy," said the good-natured Captain.
You must come to a compromise.
Steyne has been a hundred times alone with her in the house before."
His adviser caught at some stray hints in it.
Look here, Pitt-you know that I was to have had Miss Crawley's money.
I can't help you any more.
"That's over now." And the words were wrenched from him with a groan, which made his brother start.
"I hope to put a bullet into the man whom that belongs to." He had thought to himself, it would be a fine revenge to wrap a ball in the note and kill Steyne with it.
"He's a regular trump, that boy," the father went on, still musing about his son.
His gentleman alone took the opportunity of perusing the newspaper before he laid it by his master's desk.
"The bailiffs were put upon me; I was taken as I was going out of his house; when I wrote to her for money, she said she was ill in bed and put me off to another day.
Pitt closed the door and came up to the table, where he sat down in the other arm chair-that one placed for the reception of the steward, agent, or confidential visitor who came to transact business with the Baronet-and trimmed his nails more vehemently than ever.
By the time this note was composed, the Captain's servant returned from his mission to Colonel Crawley's house in Curzon Street, but without the carpet bag and portmanteau, for which he had been sent, and with a very puzzled and odd face.
The servants was a drinkin' up in the drawingroom.
"After the sacrifices I have made, and the manner in which I have stood by you, I think this sort of reproach is useless," Sir Pitt said. "Your marriage was your own doing, not mine."
"I warned you a thousand times.
"The deuce! a Marquis! they said he-that is, they said you-"
They said-they said you had gone off with the plate, Colonel"--the man added after a pause-"One of the servants is off already.
"It's about-about my wife," Crawley answered, casting down his eyes and turning very red.
"Thank you, brother," said he.
I don't mean to say that I won't assist you ultimately.
Nor did Sir Pitt vouchsafe her any explanation.
The children came up to salute him, and he kissed them in his usual frigid manner. The mother took both of them close to herself, and held a hand of each of them as they knelt down to prayers, which Sir Pitt read to them, and to the servants in their Sunday suits or liveries, ranged upon chairs on the other side of the hissing tea urn.
And by the sermon book was the Observer newspaper, damp and neatly folded, and for Sir Pitt's own private use.
CHAPTER fifty four
The fat red faced man looked after him with astonishment as he strode away; so did the people in their Sunday clothes who were out so early; the charity boys with shining faces, the greengrocer lolling at his door, and the publican shutting his shutters in the sunshine, against service commenced.
When Rawdon told the Captain he wanted a friend, the latter knew perfectly well on what duty of friendship he was called to act, and indeed had conducted scores of affairs for his acquaintances with the greatest prudence and skill.
Her imploring eyes could read nothing but calamity in his face, but he went away without another word.
"Pitt, it's all over with me," the Colonel said after a pause.
The Colonel told his senior briefly, and in broken accents, the circumstances of the case. "It was a regular plan between that scoundrel and her," he said.
This, as he was about to meet a lord, Captain Macmurdo performed with particular care.
How he sat the kicker to be sure!
"I wish I was," Rawdon replied.
To an affair of that nature, of course, he said, there was but one issue, and after his conference with his brother, he was going away to make the necessary arrangements for the meeting which must ensue.
And thus, and almost mutely, this bargain was struck between them.
The elder brother was much affected, and shook Rawdon's hand with a cordiality seldom exhibited by him.
But the print fell blank upon his eyes, and he did not know in the least what he was reading.
Lady Jane, in her morning gown, was up and above stairs in the nursery superintending the toilettes of her children and listening to the morning prayers which the little creatures performed at her knee. Every morning she and they performed this duty privately, and before the public ceremonial at which Sir Pitt presided and at which all the people of the household were expected to assemble.
The door of the dining room happened to be left open, and the lady of course was issuing from it as the two brothers passed out of the study.
By Jove, sir, I've pawned my own watch in order to get her anything she fancied; and she she's been making a purse for herself all the time, and grudged me a hundred pound to get me out of quod." He then fiercely and incoherently, and with an agitation under which his counsellor had never before seen him labour, told Macmurdo the circumstances of the story.
There was George Kitely, Lord Ragland's son, went through the Court last week, and was what they call whitewashed, I believe.
Rawdon answered it was Lord Steyne.
Little Rawdon was then sitting, one of fifty gown boys, in the Chapel of Whitefriars School, thinking, not about the sermon, but about going home next Saturday, when his father would certainly tip him and perhaps would take him to the play.
His room was hung round with boxing, sporting, and dancing pictures, presented to him by comrades as they retired from the regiment, and married and settled into quiet life.
"Not that," Rawdon said.
She held out her hand to Rawdon and said she was glad he was come to breakfast, though she could perceive, by his haggard unshorn face and the dark looks of her husband, that there was very little question of breakfast between them.
"If it wasn't for little Rawdon I'd have cut my throat this morning-and that damned villain's too."
The landlord's come in and took possession.
Breakfast was so late that day, in consequence of the delays which had occurred, that the church bells began to ring whilst they were sitting over their meal; and Lady Jane was too ill, she said, to go to church, though her thoughts had been entirely astray during the period of family devotion.
"Don't be frightened, Pitt.
"What is the matter, then?" said Pitt, somewhat relieved.
"She may be innocent, after all," he said.
That dear good wife of yours has always been good to him; and he's fonder of her than he is of his . . .--Damn it.
And when I got home I found her in diamonds and sitting with that villain alone." He then went on to describe hurriedly the personal conflict with Lord Steyne.
"Is there no way out of it, old boy?" the Captain continued in a grave tone.
"I will, upon my honour," the Baronet said.
"You don't know how fond I was of that one," Rawdon said, half inarticulately.
Captain Macmurdo, a veteran officer and Waterloo man, greatly liked by his regiment, in which want of money alone prevented him from attaining the highest ranks, was enjoying the forenoon calmly in bed.
I didn't do my duty with the regiment so bad.
But Colonel Crawley only took out a card and enjoined him particularly to send it in to Lord Steyne, and to mark the address written on it, and say that Colonel Crawley would be all day after one o'clock at the Regent Club in saint James's Street-not at home.
Shut the door; I want to speak to you."
I'm a beggar because I would marry her.
"Serve him right," Macmurdo said.
Every shilling of my money is tied up.
"I'm done."
The mansion of Sir Pitt Crawley, in Great Gaunt Street, was just beginning to dress itself for the day, as Rawdon, in his evening costume, which he had now worn two days, passed by the scared female who was scouring the steps and entered into his brother's study.
And he was anxious, on the Colonel's behalf, to give up the note to its owner.
"What the deuce was the good of my telling you what any tom fools talked about?"
I'm not drunk.
"Here's six hundred," he said-"you didn't know I was so rich.
The other gave a whistle.
Poor Rawdon took up the paper and began to try and read it until his brother should arrive.
But for this I might have been quite a different man.
Rawdon muttered some excuses about an engagement, squeezing hard the timid little hand which his sister in law reached out to him.
A book of family sermons, one of which Sir Pitt was in the habit of administering to his family on Sunday mornings, lay ready on the study table, and awaiting his judicious selection.
He started when he saw poor Rawdon in his study in tumbled clothes, with blood shot eyes, and his hair over his face.
didn't he?"
But as for paying your creditors in full, I might as well hope to pay the National Debt.
Sunday After the Battle
It seemed to them of no consequence whether Becky had a quantity of very fine clothes in invisible trunks; but as her present supply was exceedingly shabby, Emmy supplied her out of her own stores, or took her to the best milliner in the town and there fitted her out.
"Thank you," said Amelia.
She laid down the cup of tea.
Who shall analyse those tears and say whether they were sweet or bitter?
She talked to her perpetually about Major Dobbin sent about his business, and made no scruple of declaring her admiration for that excellent, high minded gentleman, and of telling Emmy that she had behaved most cruelly regarding him.
They have been absent from England fourteen years, having been embarked the year after Waterloo, in which glorious conflict they took an active part, and having subsequently distinguished themselves in the Burmese war.
The money was paid, and her character established, but Colonel Dobbin sent back his share of the legacy to the insurance office and rigidly declined to hold any communication with Rebecca.
I know everybody.
Of course he would come; what could he do else but come?
He owned it to me.
Which Contains Births, Marriages, and Deaths
"There is nothing to forbid me now," she thought.
That incident of the picture had finished him.
She told him that she thought Major William was the best man in all the world-the gentlest and the kindest, the bravest and the humblest.
But if she did not indulge-the courier did: that rascal Kirsch could not be kept from the bottle, nor could he tell how much he took when he applied to it.
"I tried-I tried my best, indeed I did, Rebecca," said Amelia deprecatingly, "but I couldn't forget-"; and she finished the sentence by looking up at the portrait.
When I'm in the Army, won't I hate the French?--that's all."
He must go now.
As for Becky, she came as a matter of course in the fourth place inside of the fine barouche mr Jos had bought, the two domestics being on the box in front.
The more he thought of this long passage of his life, the more clearly he saw his deception.
He had left her, and she was wretched.
"Look there, you fool," Becky said, still with provoking good humour, and taking a little paper out of her belt, she opened it and flung it into Emmy's lap.
Why pine, or be ashamed of my defeat?"
CHAPTER sixty seven
The memory of his almost countless services, and lofty and affectionate regard, now presented itself to her and rebuked her day and night.
It was that signal, sure enough.
What had that little mrs Crawley to say to him?
"Then, why not come away with me?" said Dobbin in reply; but Jos had not the courage.
He was sometimes surprised himself at the way in which mr Sedley's Cognac diminished.
The Transparent reigning family took too to the waters, or retired to their hunting lodges. Everybody went away having any pretensions to politeness, and of course, with them, Doctor von Glauber, the Court Doctor, and his Baroness.
I will see that the buttons of the recruits are properly bright and that the sergeants make no mistakes in their accounts.
She found herself suddenly and unexpectedly in snug comfortable quarters, surrounded by friends, kindness, and good-natured simple people such as she had not met with for many a long day; and, wanderer as she was by force and inclination, there were moments when rest was pleasant to her.
"You are not in debt, then?
It was a fond mistake.
The German ladies, never particularly squeamish as regards morals, especially in English people, were delighted with the cleverness and wit of mrs Osborne's charming friend, and though she did not ask to go to Court, yet the most august and Transparent Personages there heard of her fascinations and were quite curious to know her.
Some of mrs Rawdon Crawley's acquaintances, however, acknowledged her readily enough,--perhaps more readily than she would have desired. Among those were Major Loder (unattached), and Captain Rook (late of the Rifles), who might be seen any day on the Dike, smoking and staring at the women, and who speedily got an introduction to the hospitable board and select circle of mr Joseph Sedley.
I am done.
In the course of a week, the civilian was her sworn slave and frantic admirer.
We must have the bones in, or, dammy, I'll split.' What could the Major mean, Mamma?"
The French Minister was as much charmed with her as his English rival.
He was slow of movement, tied to his Doctor, and perhaps to some other leading strings. At least Becky was not anxious to go to England.
When a traveller talks to you perpetually about the splendour of his luggage, which he does not happen to have with him, my son, beware of that traveller!
The correspondence between George and his guardian had not ceased by any means: William had even written once or twice to her since his departure, but in a manner so unconstrainedly cold that the poor woman felt now in her turn that she had lost her power over him and that, as he had said, he was free.
Not he.
"Listen to me, Amelia," said Becky, marching up and down the room before the other and surveying her with a sort of contemptuous kindness.
"I'll go into harness again," he said, "and do my duty in that state of life in which it has pleased Heaven to place me.
She would have liked to kneel down and say her prayers of thanks there.
The boat followed the smoke into sight.
Georgy had a dandy telescope and got the vessel under view in the most skilful manner.
William had spent it all out.
She might have some misgivings about the friends whom she should meet at Ostend, and who might be likely to tell ugly stories-but bah! she was strong enough to hold her own.
And suppose I had won her, should I not have been disenchanted the day after my victory?
He never cared for you.
Her life is her answer to them.
She grew pale and ill.
That young scapegrace George had fled too, and as the gentleman in the old cloak lined with red stuff stepped on to the shore, there was scarcely any one present to see what took place, which was briefly this:
It was no more torn collars now, I promise you, and faded silks trailing off at the shoulder.
You must go away from here and from the impertinences of these men.
Becky took down her elephant and put it into the little box which she had had from Amelia ever so many years ago. Emmy also came off with her Lares-her two pictures-and the party, finally, were, lodged in an exceedingly dear and uncomfortable house at Ostend.
But though the steamer was under way, he might not be on board; he might not have got the letter; he might not choose to come.
Why, the man was weary of you, and would have jilted you, but that Dobbin forced him to keep his word.
The Colonel's brow darkened at this.
Having at first disliked Becky for being the means of dismissing him from the presence of her mistress, she was reconciled to mrs Crawley subsequently, because the latter became William's most ardent admirer and champion.
Jos's house never was so pleasant since he had a house of his own as Rebecca caused it to be.
"Why, when your papa was a little boy," she said, "he often told me that it was William who defended him against a tyrant at the school where they were; and their friendship never ceased from that day until the last, when your dear father fell."
Oh, she thought, she would be all her life saying them!
It's false!
She was very distraite, nervous, silent, and ill to please.
Rebecca," cried out Amelia, starting up.
"How she does pitch!" he said.
It was the portrait of a gentleman in pencil, his face having the advantage of being painted up in pink.
George took the glass again and raked the vessel.
Jos clasped his hands and cried, "He would go back to India.
She had been a daughter to him.
She treated Emmy like a child and patted her head.
"I bought it," said Becky in a voice trembling with emotion; "I went to see if I could be of any use to my kind friends.
"And now let us get pen and ink and write to him to come this minute," she said.
She knew he would come.
The ship came swiftly nearer and nearer.
Neither spoke much, except now and then, when the boy said a few words to his timid companion, indicative of sympathy and protection.
As for Jos, even in that little interview in the garret at the Elephant Inn, she had found means to win back a great deal of his good will.
"I may love him with all my heart now. Oh, I will, I will, if he will but let me and forgive me." I believe it was this feeling rushed over all the others which agitated that gentle little bosom.
"Couldn't forget HIM!" cried out Becky, "that selfish humbug, that low bred cockney dandy, that padded booby, who had neither wit, nor manners, nor heart, and was no more to be compared to your friend with the bamboo cane than you are to Queen Elizabeth.
They paid her tipsy compliments; they leered at her over the dinner table.
He is, ten to one, an impostor.
At last the much bragged about boxes arrived from Leipzig; three of them not by any means large or splendid; nor did Becky appear to take out any sort of dresses or ornaments from the boxes when they did arrive.
As for Emmy, who found herself not in the least mistress of her own house, except when the bills were to be paid, Becky soon discovered the way to soothe and please her.
And as she looked at her husband's portrait of nights, it no longer reproached her-perhaps she reproached it, now William was gone.
He asked little parties and invented festivities to do her honour.
For wherever mr Joseph Sedley went, she travelled likewise, and that infatuated man seemed to be entirely her slave.
Indeed, she did not cry so much as Becky expected-the other soothed and kissed her-a rare mark of sympathy with mrs Becky.
The artless woman had made a confidant of the boy.
Emmy did not hear her; she was looking at the letter.
Isn't the whole course of life made up of such?
"I want to talk to you.
"I'm sure I can't tell what he meant." His presence and that of his friend inspired the little lady with intolerable terror and aversion.
She picketed her steed, hung up her weapons, and warmed herself comfortably by his fire.
A couple of ruffians were fighting for this innocent creature, gambling for her at her own table, and though she was not aware of the rascals' designs upon her, yet she felt a horror and uneasiness in their presence and longed to fly.
Emmy tried to look through the telescope over George's shoulder, but she could make nothing of it.
Georgy jumped at the idea of a move.
You must have a husband, you fool; and one of the best gentlemen I ever saw has offered you a hundred times, and you have rejected him, you silly, heartless, ungrateful little creature!"
So, pleased herself, she tried with all her might to please everybody; and we know that she was eminent and successful as a practitioner in the art of giving pleasure.
Emmy did not care where she went much.
I have never parted with that picture-I never will."
He found his brother in law in a condition of pitiable infirmity-and dreadfully afraid of Rebecca, though eager in his praises of her.
He was riding on an elephant away from some cocoa nut trees and a pagoda: it was an Eastern scene.
There's only two people on deck besides the steersman.
He eats little and sleeps little, and all he eats is fruit, and when he sleeps, if he sleeps at all, it is in the field on the hard earth like a brute beast.
The spices of different kinds did not seem to have been bought by the pound but by the quarter, and all lay open to view in a great chest.
He attacked like an angry lion, but he was met by a tap on the mouth from the button of the licentiate's sword that checked him in the midst of his furious onset, and made him kiss it as if it were a relic, though not as devoutly as relics are and ought to be kissed.
All then mingled together, forming chains and breaking off again with graceful, unconstrained gaiety; and whenever Love passed in front of the castle he shot his arrows up at it, while Interest broke gilded pellets against it.
"At the rate we are going," said Sancho, "I'll be chewing clay before your worship dies; and then, maybe, I'll be so dumb that I'll not say a word until the end of the world, or, at least, till the day of judgment."
Interest then came forward and went through two more figures, and as soon as the tabors ceased, he said:
The companionship of one's wife is no article of merchandise, that, after it has been bought, may be returned, or bartered, or changed; for it is an inseparable accident that lasts as long as life lasts; it is a noose that, once you put it round your neck, turns into a Gordian knot, which, if the scythe of Death does not cut it, there is no untying.
"Of course I have finished it," replied Sancho, "because I see your worship takes offence at it; but if it was not for that, there was work enough cut out for three days."
"If your worship had a good memory," replied Sancho, "you would remember the articles of our agreement before we started from home this last time; one of them was that I was to be let say all I liked, so long as it was not against my neighbour or your worship's authority; and so far, it seems to me, I have not broken the said article."
He has provided dancers too, not only sword but also bell dancers, for in his own town there are those who ring the changes and jingle the bells to perfection; of shoe dancers I say nothing, for of them he has engaged a host.
"Say no more, Sancho," said Don Quixote at this; "don't try to better it, and risk a fall; for in truth what thou hast said about death in thy rustic phrase is what a good preacher might have said.
Sancho did as his master bade him, and putting the saddle on Rocinante and the pack saddle on Dapple, they both mounted and at a leisurely pace entered the arcade.
Why, then, should not he do the same who has to make the whole journey of life down to the final halting place of death, more especially when the companion has to be his companion in bed, at board, and everywhere, as the wife is to her husband?
They won't give a pint of wine at the tavern for a good cast of the bar or a neat thrust of the sword.
But mightier than Love am I, Though Love it be that leads me on, Than mine no lineage is more high, Or older, underneath the sun To use me rightly few know how, To act without me fewer still, For I am Interest, and I vow For evermore to do thy will.
"In good faith, senor," replied Sancho, "there's no trusting that fleshless one, I mean Death, who devours the lamb as soon as the sheep, and, as I have heard our curate say, treads with equal foot upon the lofty towers of kings and the lowly huts of the poor.
"Well then," said the cook, "take spoon and all; for Camacho's wealth and happiness furnish everything."
"Let him do what he likes," returned Sancho; "be he not poor, he would marry Quiteria.
Talents and accomplishments that can't be turned into money, let Count Dirlos have them; but when such gifts fall to one that has hard cash, I wish my condition of life was as becoming as they are.
Sometimes he gazes at the sky, at other times he fixes his eyes on the earth in such an abstracted way that he might be taken for a clothed statue, with its drapery stirred by the wind.
Interest retired, and Poetry came forward, and when she had gone through her figures like the others, fixing her eyes on the damsel of the castle, she said:
In short, he shows such signs of a heart crushed by suffering, that all we who know him believe that when to morrow the fair Quiteria says 'yes,' it will be his sentence of death."
During the remainder of the journey the licentiate held forth to them on the excellences of the sword, with such conclusive arguments, and such figures and mathematical proofs, that all were convinced of the value of the science, and Corchuelo cured of his dogmatism.
I, sirs, for my sins have studied canon law at Salamanca, and I rather pique myself on expressing my meaning in clear, plain, and intelligible language."
CHAPTER twenty.
"Have done, thou glutton," said Don Quixote; "come, let us go and witness this bridal, and see what the rejected Basilio does."
The other two of the company, the peasants, without dismounting from their asses, served as spectators of the mortal tragedy.
"We shall soon see," replied Corchuelo, and getting off his ass briskly, he drew out furiously one of the swords the licentiate carried on his beast.
Sancho counted more than sixty wine skins of over six gallons each, and all filled, as it proved afterwards, with generous wines.
Why!
Sancho observed all, contemplated all, and everything won his heart.
The cuts, thrusts, down strokes, back strokes and doubles, that Corchuelo delivered were past counting, and came thicker than hops or hail.
"Look here, bachelor Corchuelo," returned the licentiate, "you have the most mistaken idea in the world about skill with the sword, if you think it useless."
"Nothing, Senor Samson," said she, "only that my master is breaking out, plainly breaking out."
"There are," replied Don Quixote, "and plenty of them; and it is right there should be, to set off the dignity of the prince, and for the greater glory of the king's majesty."
What has happened to you?
It is by rugged paths like these they go That scale the heights of immortality, Unreached by those that falter here below."
"That I can well believe," replied the bachelor, "for they are so good and so fat, and so well bred, that they would not say one thing for another, though they were to burst for it.
"There is a great deal of truth in what you say, niece," returned Don Quixote, "and I could tell you somewhat about birth that would astonish you; but, not to mix up things human and divine, I refrain.
CHAPTER seven.
"And so say I," said Don Quixote; "continue, Sancho my friend; go on; you talk pearls to day."
"I see," said Sancho; "I'll bet I ought to have said proportion, and not promotion; but it is no matter, as your worship has understood me."
One would think you heart broken."
"I would bet," said Sancho, "that from the very first you understood me, and knew what I meant, but you wanted to put me out that you might hear me make another couple of dozen blunders."
Nevertheless, among many other representations made to him, the housekeeper said to him, "In truth, master, if you do not keep still and stay quiet at home, and give over roaming mountains and valleys like a troubled spirit, looking for what they say are called adventures, but what I call misfortunes, I shall have to make complaint to God and the king with loud supplication to send some remedy."
"Well, if you can't understand me," said Sancho, "I don't know how to put it; I know no more, God help me."
See now who offers to become one; no less than the illustrious bachelor Samson Carrasco, the perpetual joy and delight of the courts of the Salamancan schools, sound in body, discreet, patient under heat or cold, hunger or thirst, with all the qualifications requisite to make a knight errant's squire!
They strove by all the means in their power to divert him from such an unlucky scheme; but it was all preaching in the desert and hammering cold iron.
OF WHAT TOOK PLACE BETWEEN DON QUIXOTE AND HIS NIECE AND HOUSEKEEPER; ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT CHAPTERS IN THE WHOLE HISTORY
"And so well understood," returned Don Quixote, "that I have seen into the depths of thy thoughts, and know the mark thou art shooting at with the countless shafts of thy proverbs.
In short then, mistress housekeeper, that is all, and there is nothing the matter, except what it is feared Don Quixote may do?"
But heaven forbid that, to gratify my own inclination, I should shake or shatter this pillar of letters and vessel of the sciences, and cut down this towering palm of the fair and liberal arts.
"Then might not your worship," said she, "be one of those that, without stirring a step, serve their king and lord in his court?"
Whereupon the housekeeper said, "Tell us, senor, at his Majesty's court are there no knights?"
The curses which both housekeeper and niece poured out on the bachelor were past counting; they tore their hair, they clawed their faces, and in the style of the hired mourners that were once in fashion, they raised a lamentation over the departure of their master and uncle, as if it had been his death.
The arch wag Samson came forward, and embracing him as he had done before, said with a loud voice, "O flower of knight errantry!
"May be so," replied Don Quixote; "but to come to the point, what does Teresa say?"
OF WHAT PASSED BETWEEN DON QUIXOTE AND HIS SQUIRE, TOGETHER WITH OTHER VERY NOTABLE INCIDENTS
CHAPTER six.
"Oh, you don't need to, indeed!" cried Patsy, in great indignation. "Uncle john is my dear mother's brother, and he's to come and live with the Major and me, as long as he cares to.
Won't we, girls?"
mr Bradley having provided for that most fully.
"Of course.
Blank looks followed mr Watson's statement.
You owe me nothing, my lad."
"I used mine," said Beth, bitterly.
Can you get ready to come with me today, Uncle john?"
"Can't you go yourself?" asked the boy.
Patsy laughed.
"I shall take the afternoon train to the city.
Indeed, the arrangements of the household had been considerably changed by the death of its mistress, and without any real head to direct them the servants were patiently awaiting the advent of a new master or mistress.
"I'm going home today," said Beth, angrily drying her eyes.
"Wasn't I the grand lady, though, with all the fortune I never had?" she cried merrily.
Uncle john and mr Watson did not appear at dinner, being closeted in the former's room.
"Doesn't the Major earn a heap with his bookkeeping, and haven't I had a raise lately?
"You ought to travel, and visit the art centers of Europe, and I shall try to find a competent tutor to go with you."
Uncle john seemed greatly affected, and wrung the boy's hand earnestly.
Louise and Beth, having at last full knowledge of their cousin's desire to increase their bequests, were openly very grateful for her good will; although secretly they could not fail to resent Patsy's choice of the boy as the proper heir of his uncle's fortune.
"I'd like that," declared the boy.
Why, we'll be as snug and contented as pigs in clover.
"No, my dear," answered the lawyer, gently.
But, as she was so generous, he would accept enough of his Uncle Tom's money to educate him as an artist and provide for himself an humble home.
For this reason the will I read to you yesterday is of no effect, and Kenneth Forbes inherits from his uncle, through his mother, all of the estate."
"Don't we get anything at all?" asked Beth, with quivering lip.
"That may be," answered the boy.
"We'll all go home," said Patsy, cheerfully.
Patsy tried to comfort Beth.
"I'm getting old, and my clients are few and unimportant, aside from the Elmhurst interests," he said.
Kenneth and mr Watson came to the station to see them off, and they parted with many mutual expressions of friendship and good will. Louise, especially, pressed an urgent invitation upon the new master of Elmhurst to visit her mother in New York, and he said he hoped to see all the girls again.
"It's so much easier than walking," she said to Uncle john, "that the common car is good enough," and the old man readily agreed with her.
"For my part," remarked Uncle john, in a grave voice, "I have no home."
"I can wander yet."
"But I'm much obliged to Jane, nevertheless."
It did not seem clear to them yet whether Miss Patricia or Lawyer Watson was to take charge of Elmhurst: but there were few tears shed for Jane Merrick, and the new regime could not fail to be an improvement over the last.
As far as she knew, she tried to be good to us."
The lawyer hesitated.
Come you shall, if I have to drag you; and if you act naughty I'll send for the Major to punish you!"
The boy sat doubled within his chair, so overcome by the extraordinary fortune that had overtaken him that he could not speak, nor think even clearly as yet.
"Money?
The main subject of conversation was Aunt Jane's surprising act in annulling her last will and forcing Patricia to accept the inheritance when she did not want it.
But we shall be glad to assist Uncle john as far as we are able."
"Good by to my five thousand," said Uncle john, with his chuckling laugh.
"We're no worse off than before we came, are we?
But he shook his head.
No, no! say nothing at all, sir!
Stay at Elmhurst, and you shall always be welcome."
As he rode beside Kenneth he said:
They were really like cousins to him, by this time.
"Thank you, my dear," said he; "but where's the money to come from?"
"Your aunt owned nothing to give you."
At dinner the young folks chatted together in a friendly and eager manner concerning the events of the day.
Uncle John's eyes were moist.
"Perhaps I can manage to go abroad with you."
"Why, you're worse off than any of us. What's going to become of you, I wonder?"
Patsy ran up and put her arm around his neck.
Louise smiled rather scornfully, and Beth scowled.
"Father can hardly support his own family," said the other; "but I will talk to my mother about Uncle john when I get home, and see what she says."
"See here," exclaimed Patsy.
"Never mind, dear," said she.
"But I like you," said Kenneth, "and you're old and homeless.
"No," replied Uncle john, "the Merricks are out of Elmhurst now, and it returns to its rightful owners.
Lawyer Watson and Uncle john were there, looking as grave as the important occasion demanded, and the former at once proceeded to relate the scene in James' room, his story of the death of Thomas Bradley, and the subsequent finding of the will.
Louise smiled.
"I'm wondering that myself," said the little man, meekly.
"Yes," he said slowly.
"We're all three your nieces, and we'll take care of you between us.
CHAPTER twenty three.
"I'll be ready, Patsy."
"Yes."
"I've wandered all my life," he said.
"It's all I'll ever get, it seems." And then the thought of the Professor and his debts overcame her and she burst, into tears.
She felt wonderfully relieved.
"But Patsy will be there, you know."
Bah!" she said.
You can stay here," said the boy, suddenly arousing from his apathy.
She fairly danced for joy, and ordered the dinner with reckless disregard of the bill.
"Meantime," said Uncle john, smiling at them, "I'll look around myself."
Uncle john hesitated a moment, and then drew from an inner pocket of his coat a thin wallet.
"To be sure," agreed the Major.
It's modest, sir; but wherever Patsy is the sun is sure to shine."
"And Bull Durham is only five cents a bag, and a bag ought to last a week.
And, after all, it's a wicked city to be carrying a fat pocketbook around in, as I've often observed."
'twas the time of my life."
Our house is yours, and there's plenty and to spare."
"I haven't many," said Uncle john, looking thoughtfully at his red bundle.
I'll bet a penny you liked it as little as I did."
"True, but now you're here; and our love, Uncle, has nothing to do with Elmhurst.
"Not at all, Daddy."
"Couldn't we get him a job?" asked Patsy, wistfully.
"A very bad habit, sir," he said.
"Did you get nothing out of Jane Merrick's estate?"
"Oh, Major!" cried Patsy, suddenly.
There was a moment of thoughtful silence after this, and then Patsy said:
"Wasn't I there.
Welcome, sir, now and always, to our little home.
But I'm not sorry at all."
And surely," he added, his voice falling tenderly, "my dear Violet's brother must be my own.
My, how her eyes sparkled!
"Thank you, Patsy," said Uncle john, meekly, and gathered up his forty two cents.
"Jane left five thousand to me, also, which I didn't get.
He could hardly see Patsy at all, the Major wrapped her in such an ample embrace; but bye and bye she escaped to get her breath, and then her eyes fell upon the meek form holding her bundles.
"On which account," said the Major, grasping the little man's hand most cordially, "I'll love Uncle john like my own brother.
Where, indeed!"
Uncle john shook his head, reproachfully, at the Major.
The Major coughed and turned the lamp a little higher.
"You weren't vexed with disappointment, were you, Patsy?"
"Where?
"It didn't hurt you, did it?" asked the Major.
On the wails were a few colored prints from the Sunday newspapers and one large and fine photograph of a grizzled old soldier that Uncle john at once decided must represent "the Colonel."
"Any more?"
But, after a merry meal and a good one, there was no bill at all when it was called for.
"My pocketbook is not exactly fat," remarked Uncle john.
"You'll find the air fine, and the neighborhood respectable," he said, to turn the subject.
At once she dropped her bundles and flew to the Major's arms, leaving the little man in her wake to rescue her belongings and follow after.
CHAPTER twenty four.
"He smokes," observed the Major, significantly.
"It's cozy enough, my child; and I thank you for my welcome," said he. "But may I enquire where on earth you expect to stow me in this rather limited establishment?"
That's the way I do-it's very satisfactory."
"Not a nickle, Dad. 'twas the best joke you ever knew.
"And meantime-"
HOME AGAIN.
His face grew grave.
A model home, sir, and a happy one, as I hope you'll find it."
"Between the two of us and Patsy, we ought to have no trouble at all."
Uncle john looked around curiously.
Let me see," pushing the coins about with her slender fingers, "you just keep the forty two cents, Uncle john.
"Why, this will last for ages, and I'll put it away safe and be liberal with your allowance.
The place was so plain after the comparative luxury of Elmhurst, and especially of the rose chamber Patsy had occupied, that the old man could not fail to marvel at the girl's ecstatic joy to find herself in the old tenement again.
It'll do for car fare and a bit of lunch now and then, and when you get broke you can come to me."
"And you can wash in my chamber," added the Major, with a grand air, "and hang your clothes on the spare hooks behind my door."
Patsy gets our breakfast on the stove yonder, and we buy our lunches down town, where we work, and then dine at Danny Reeves's place.
"So I was rich for half a day, and then poor as ever."
"But you've money, sir, for I marked you squandering it on the train," said Patsy, severely.
"Oh, Dad," she cried, "here's Uncle john, who has come to live with us; and if you don't love him as much as I do I'll make your life miserable!"
Uncle john laughed and drew his chair up to the table.
"It's no palace," said Patsy, entering to throw down the bundles as soon as the Major unlocked the door, "but there's a cricket in the hearth, and it's your home, Uncle john, as well as ours."
Danny Reeves himself came instead, and made a nice little speech, saying that Patsy had always brought good luck to the place, and this dinner was his treat to welcome her home.
"Look at that, now!" said the Major, wonderingly.
Have you no eyes, then?" she asked, in astonishment.
So they stopped the car and descended, lugging all the parcels into the little restaurant, where they were piled into a chair while the proprietor and the waiters all gathered around Patsy to welcome her home.
"There's Danny Reeves's restaurant.
When she died she left me all she had in the world."
"All this wealth, and you pleading poverty?"
The girl caught sight of him outside the gates, his face red and beaming as a poppy in bloom and his snowy moustache bristling with eagerness.
In your case, it won't matter.
Patsy?" asked Uncle john, reproachfully.
And every Saturday night, sir, you shall have a cigar after dinner, with the Major.
"By the bye," added the Major, "if you have any money about you, which is just possible, sir, of course, you'd better turn it over to Patsy to keep, and let her make you an allowance.
"Good gracious!" she cried, delightedly.
He can't hang around all day and be happy, I suppose."
"Of course; but don't spoil the lace curtains, dear," answered Patsy, mischievously.
"Seven dollars and forty two cents," she announced.
"But how about the money, Patsy dear?" he asked.
"And you're a dozen years younger, Major!" she cried, laughing, "and fit to dig into work like a pig in clover."
But just to keep him out of mischief, and busy.
"Thank you," said Uncle john, his face grave but his eyes merry.
And then, turning to her father, she exclaimed: "Oh, daddy!
"That's as he may choose," said the Major, courteously.
"You couldn't, and be truthful, sir," declared the girl.
Did you ever?"
"I never said I was a pauper," returned Uncle john, complacently.
"You know it won't matter, Uncle john, if you don't work.
"I'll look around," answered the Major, briskly, as if such a "job" was the easiest thing in the world to procure.
One of the young man's hands hung limp and helpless.
From that distance the boats drawn upon the sheltered beach seemed like mere toys.
Is it not so?"
"Do you know where my rig is?" Uncle john asked the driver, at the same time peering up and down the road.
Others may look; it is only you who must ride.
As it collided against the stone wall the vehicle tipped dangerously, hurling the driver from his seat to dive headforemost into the space beneath.
The Hotel Victoria faces the bay of Naples.
Uncle john could not well refuse.
THE ROAD TO AMALFI
"Where's your uniform?" he asked.
"We don't want to ride," was the answer.
"Why, it's nothing at all," returned Beth, flushing; "we're trained to do such things in the gymnasium at Cloverton, and I'm much stronger than I appear to be."
When it comes to actual use, we don't get it."
"Better," agreed Patsy.
The cabman implored.
At what hour, to morrow, illustrissimo?"
It is good.
Italy is beautiful; it is charming and delightful; but seldom is this true in winter or early spring.
"All we want to day is to see the town," he declared, "We're not going to ride, but walk."
I find me the carrozza is not easy; it is not perfect; it do not remain good for a long ride.
They had an early breakfast and were ready at nine o'clock; but when they came to the gate of the garden they found only a dilapidated carriage standing before it.
Uncle john leaped from the carriage, followed by Louise and Patsy.
There the uniformed vetturio stood beside the one modern carriage in the group.
Circling around the cliff beyond Positano the sun greeted them, shining from out a blue sky, and they wondered what had become of the bad weather they had so lately experienced.
Instantly the crowd scampered back to the square, followed more leisurely by Uncle john and the girls.
"We've been swindled, my dears," he said; "swindled most beautifully. But I suppose we may as well make the best of it."
They passed through the picturesque lanes of Sorrento, climbed the further slope, and brought the carriage to the other side of the peninsula, where the girls obtained their first view of the Gulf of Salerno, with the lovely Isles of the Sirens lying just beneath them.
But the fellow seemed suddenly deaf, and paid no heed.
Uncle john was obdurate.
The road is dusty, very; I must not ruin a nice dress when I work," answered the man, smiling unabashed.
"It is wonderful!" murmured Ferralti.
Stop, I say!" he yelled at the man, angrily.
It may not be as pretty as the other, but I expect that one is only kept to make engagements with.
"Hold fast," she called calmly to the driver, and began dragging him upward, inch by inch.
Uncle john had been observing the Count.
So I leave him home, for I am kind.
Even Louise was pleased at the arrangement and as eager as the others to make the trip.
"Is not bellissima, signore?" asked the man, proudly.
The man promised, whereat his confreres lost all interest in the matter and the strangers were allowed to proceed without further interruption.
Count Ferralti rode at the side of the carriage but did not attempt much conversation.
The driver had by now repaired a broken strap and found his equippage otherwise uninjured.
"It is the proper thing to do, Uncle."
"Only try, signore!
"Be ready to start at nine o'clock to morrow morning."
He cracked his whip and rattled away through the streets without a glance behind him.
It was long legs, sure enough, but shorn of his beautiful regalia.
They entered the crazy looking vehicle and found the seats ample and comfortable despite the appearance of dilapidation everywhere prevalent. The driver mounted the box, cracked his whip, and the lean nags ambled away at a fair pace.
The horses were frantic at the time and wrenched my wrist viciously as I tried to hold them.
"Hop in, my dears."
"Well, I suppose we may as well take it," said the little man, in a resigned tone.
"A little, perhaps, mr Merrick; but it is unimportant.
"But I'll get even with this rascal before I've done with him, never fear."
"That's true enough," he returned.
"You take my carrozza, signore?" begged the cabman.
You will be much please when we return."
It was new; it was glossy; it had beautiful, carefully brushed cushions; it was drawn by a pair of splendid looking horses.
I felt something snap; a small bone, perhaps.
mr Merrick looked at the driver carefully.
Ferralti smiled, and his eyes rested upon Louise.
From now on, past Prajano and into Amalfi, the day was brilliant and the temperature delightful.
At this critical moment a mounted horseman, who unobserved had been following the party, dashed to their rescue.
But ever the road returned in a brief space to the edge of the sea cliff, and everywhere it was solid as the hills themselves, and seemingly as secure.
"It was as I had feared: a small bone snapped.
They had just sighted the ancient town of Positano and were circling a gigantic point of rock, when the great adventure of the day overtook them.
Without warning the wind came whistling around them in a great gale, which speedily increased in fury until it drove the blinded horses reeling against the low parapet and pushed upon the carriage as if determined to dash it over the precipice.
I am engage by you.
Then Beth slipped from her seat to the flat top of the parapet, stepped boldly to where the reins were pulling upon the terrified horses, and seized them in her strong grasp.
From the arbored veranda of this charming retreat is obtained one of the finest views in Europe, and while the girls sat enjoying it Uncle john arranged with a pleasant faced woman (who had once lived in America) for their luncheon.
So the girls and their uncle climbed into the vehicle again and the driver mounted the box and cracked his whip with his usual vigor.
They found out all about the Amalfi drive that evening, and were glad indeed they had decided to go.
"Are you hurt, sir?" he asked.
And perhaps one suffers more in Italy than in America, owing to the general lack of means to keep warm on cold days.
I do not wish the signorini bella to tire and weep.
"We may as well drive to Amalfi to morrow," suggested Beth.
"All right; we'll go, then."
The others stood by to listen silently to the discussion, yielding first place to the victor in the race.
Surely you will see that."
Certainly they must make the Amalfi drive, or to Massa Lubrense or Saint' Agata or at least Il Deserto!
"Oh, don't bother me."
"An hour ago," was the reply.
By and bye he bethought himself of the time, and took a cab uptown.
This last was directed at the head of the amazed porter, who, as the door slammed in his face, nodded solemnly and remarked:
"Not arrived yet," said the official, who wore a big star upon his breast.
"Don't I pay my share of them?"
"What pay do you get, Patsy?" asked Uncle john.
But I'm pretty tough, and mean to hold onto that twelve a week as long as possible."
But he was happy and in good spirits and enjoyed his evening game of cribbage with the Major exceedingly.
Talk about the Major's extravagance: it could not be compared to Uncle John's.
"And we sleep 'till eight o'clock, don't we, Patsy?" asked the Major.
"Tomorrow is the day of rest," announced Patsy, "so we'll all go for a nice walk in the parks after breakfast."
"He's busy mornings.
Another hour was spent in looking in at the shop windows.
Presently Uncle john jumped up and approached the official.
It's always harder to economize at first."
"Your expenses are nothing at all," declared the Major, with a wave of his hand.
He can't see you yet."
"Is that enough?" asked Uncle john, doubtfully.
"And so am I, Patsy."
The first whiff he took made Uncle john cough; but the Major smoked so gracefully and with such evident pleasure that his brother in law clung manfully to the cigar, and succeeded in consuming it to the end.
My name will do."
"Well, he will see me, and right away.
"Why, you foolish old Uncle!
"mr Marvin in?" he inquired, pleasantly.
Uncle john did not seem to be worrying over his idleness.
You don't care for more than one, do you, Uncle john?"
In a moment the door burst open to allow egress to a big, red bearded man in his shirtsleeves, who glanced around briefly and then rushed at Uncle john and shook both his hands cordially.
Do you know you're ten minutes late?"
He was not especially hungry; but in sipping the coffee and nibbling the cakes he passed the best part of an hour.
She wheedled the firm into giving me a vacation, and now they're to pay me twelve a week instead of ten."
"My dear mr Merrick!" he exclaimed, "I'm delighted and honored to see you here.
"For a fact.
"I showed him in myself.
He opened a small door and disappeared.
"I'm all right," declared Uncle john, cordially shaking hands with Patsy's father.
"And now we'll have our cribbage and get to bed early.
"It's an expensive city to live in," sighed Uncle john.
"And the eggs for breakfast?"
"Fine," said the Major.
Uncle john had been advised by Patsy where to go for a good cheap luncheon; but he did not heed her admonition.
"Almost as much as Daddy.
"You're older than I am," suggested the Major, "and that makes it harder to break in.
"I'm sorry," he said, humbly; "but it's a long way here from downtown."
"Your card, sir."
"I'll wait," announced Uncle john, and sat down upon a leather covered bench.
Yet Uncle john seemed in no way elated by this reception.
We're dreadfully rich, Uncle john; so you needn't worry if you don't strike a job yourself all at once."
Tell him john Merrick is here."
Don't hurry, Uncle john.
I've got a raise."
"More than enough, sir.
"I haven't any.
A great surprise and pleasure, sir! Thomas, I'm engaged!"
"Of course not," said Patsy, quickly.
To pass the time he turned into a small restaurant and had coffee and a plate of cakes, in spite of the fact that Patsy had so recently prepared coffee over the sheet iron stove and brought some hot buns from a near by bakery.
The official hesitated, and glanced at the little man's seedy garb and countryfied air.
"Didn't you take a car?"
Come in at once.
In a moment the great Broadway crowd had swallowed up john Merrick, and five minutes later he was thoughtfully gazing into a shop window again.
The Major is so fond of them."
"Hasn't mr Marvin arrived yet?" he enquired, sharply.
"No, my dear."
"But my dinners at Danny Reeves' place must cost a lot," protested Uncle john.
It's Patsy's doing, I've no doubt.
"They'd missed me at the office, and were glad to have me back.
"Really?" said Uncle john, seeing it was expected of him.
UNCLE john ACTS QUEERLY.
"Have you had a good day?"
But what could we do?"
"It's our Sunday morning extra-an egg apiece.
Uncle john walked in, although the uniformed official at the door eyed him suspiciously.
Come to my room at once.
Another hour passed.
"No, my dear."
But Uncle john waived it aside disdainfully.
john Merrick, of Portland"; and each one bowed profoundly and declared he was "highly honored."
"It's john Merrick" passed from mouth to mouth, and the uniformed official strutted from one window to another, saying:
And what do you think?
Instead, he rode in a carriage beside the banker to a splendid club, where he was served with the finest dishes the chef could provide on short notice. Moreover, mr Marvin introduced him to several substantial gentlemen as "mr
CHAPTER twenty five
The Major has been terribly excited over you, and swore you should not be allowed to wander through the streets without someone to look after you.
Except that it'll keep you busy, there's no need for you to work at all."
"Of course."
Uncle john shook his head.
Then, suddenly noting the time.
"You must be nearly bankrupt, by this time," said Patsy on Tuesday evening.
Drat these 'ere billionaires! Why don't they dress like decent people?"
I want to see him."
But something in the angry glance of the shrewd eye made him fear he had made a mistake.
"Any luck today, sir," asked the Major, tucking a napkin under his chin and beginning on the soup.
But there's no hurry, as Patsy says."
"True for you," says the king.
When the king was as good as his word, Saint Kavin was pleased with him, and then it was that he made himself known to the king.
You don't know me," says he, "because I'm disguised."
"And," says he, "King O'Toole, you're a decent man, for I only came here to try you.
"I will," says the king.
"I am King O'Toole," says he, "prince and plennypennytinchery of these parts," says he; "but how came ye to know that?" says he.
Well, sir, you must know, as you didn't hear it afore, that there was a king, called King O'Toole, who was a fine old king in the old ancient times, long ago; and it was he that owned the churches in the early days.
The king was walkin' one mornin' by the edge of the lake, lamentin' his cruel fate, and thinking of drowning himself, that could get no diversion in life, when all of a sudden, turning round the corner, whom should he meet but a mighty decent young man coming up to him.
"I am," says Saint Kavin.
King O'Toole and His Goose
"I will," says King O'Toole, "and you're welcome to it," says he, "though it's the last acre I have to give."
After some more talk the king says, "What are you?"
"Oh, no matter; I was given to understand it," says Saint Kavin.
"By Jabers, I thought I was only talking to a dacent boy," says the king.
"But you'll keep your word true," says the saint.
"And that I'm beholden to you," says the king.
"Well, you know the difference now," says the saint.
"As true as the sun," says the king.
My dear, at the word of making his goose as good as new, you'd think the poor old king's eyes were ready to jump out of his head.
"Is it a tinker you are?" says the king.
"And what do you say to me," says Saint Kavin, "for making her the like?"
"Honour bright!" says King O'Toole, holding out his fist.
Billy's eyes were brimming with pity and dismay.
Billy lifted her chin the least bit.
"And so you see, I do very much wish to sell."
"A hundred dollars?
Near it set a tray like plate of the same ware and decoration.
He picked up the teapot with careful rapture and examined it.
Alice Greggory flushed scarlet.
"I have been told so.
"Oh, Alice, my dear," pleaded mrs Greggory again, feebly.
"This gentleman says he will be glad to buy it.
Then he turned to the tray.
William Henshaw frowned angrily-that was the man; but his eyes-the collector's eyes-sought the teapot longingly.
Billy was puzzled.
Kate leaves this afternoon, you know, and it's been so snowy she hasn't thought best to try to get over to the house.
"I beg your pardon, of course," she said in a voice that was bitterly quiet.
"Yes; and thank you, my dear.
She had tried not to seem to look about her; but there was not one detail of the bare little room, from its faded rug to the patched but spotless tablecloth, that was not stamped on her brain.
mrs Greggory was a cripple.
Billy, watching the little scene, with mingled emotions, saw the glance with which the girl swept the bare little room; and she knew that there was not a patch or darn or poverty spot in sight, or out of sight, which that glance did not encompass.
"Thank you," she said with crisp coldness; "but, distasteful as darns and patches are to us, we prefer them, infinitely, to-charity!"
"Of course I will!
She stopped, and drew back a little. Her startled eyes went from one face to another, then dropped to the Lowestoft teapot in the man's hands.
"I'll take the risk of that.
"Wasn't it awful!" choked Billy.
And then-won't you keep it for me-here?
She's at the West End.
"Yes, dear, but that won't be necessary now.
But when the shabby house on the narrow little street was reached, the man looked about him with a troubled frown.
"But I do-that is, I must.
"These pieces have been in our family for generations," said mrs Greggory with an accent of pride.
My mother and my grandmother owned that teapot, sir." Again her voice broke.
And it's a Lowestoft, too, the real thing-the genuine, true soft paste!
A quick step had sounded in the hall outside.
"I know how much you think of that teapot that was grandmother's.
What a beauty!"
Billy, the next time I take you curio hunting, it won't be to this place," he fumed.
"I can't do much at work that pays.
"Perfect!
"They are, then-valuable?" mrs Greggory's voice shook.
Yes, I'm so glad!--that is, of course I must be glad. I'll get it." Her voice broke as she pulled herself from her chair. There was only despairing sorrow on her face now.
"Alice!" gasped mrs Greggory in dismayed horror.
"Billy, look, what a beauty!
Relief in the end conquered, though even yet there was a second hurriedly apprehensive glance toward the door before she spoke.
But you must know that."
There was no doubt on that point.
"I want you to go with me, if you can, to see a mrs Greggory.
What time?"
It was an impulsive speech, and a foolish one, of course, from the standpoint of sense and logic and reasonableness; but it was one that might be expected, perhaps, from Billy.
William Henshaw cleared his throat.
The collector's eyes glowed.
That she was one day to be mistress of the Strata and all it contained was still anything but "common" to her.
He will give us-a hundred dollars."
You see, she's just made up her mind to sell it, and asked him to find a customer.
I tried to get Kate to go, too; but she wouldn't.
"I don't like to-with these," she explained, tapping the crutches at her side.
I know what it cost you to make up your mind to sell it at all.
"Come, Billy!
"Mother, what is it?
It was the man who said this, not the collector.
Once down the long four flights of stairs and out on the sidewalk, William Henshaw drew a long breath.
With fingers that were almost reverent in their appreciation, the collector reached for the teapot.
Terror, joy, dismay, and relief seemed, one after the other to fight for supremacy.
The girl was the most stubborn, unreasonable, vixenish little puss I ever saw.
"A hundred dollars!" echoed the girl, faintly.
I haven't the hundred dollars with me, but I'll send it right away.
With a little outward fling of her two hands Alice Greggory stepped back.
After a moment he spoke.
"Awful!
Billy turned away sharply.
"Alice, Alice, my love!" protested the sweet faced cripple, agitatedly.
"No, indeed-not if you want me."
I wouldn't trouble you, but he says they're peculiar-the daughter, especially-and may need some careful handling.
Not so her daughter.
"Well, I do, my dear." Uncle William's voice was troubled.
"Oh, but, please, I didn't mean-you didn't understand," faltered Billy.
The next moment the door flew open and a young woman, who looked to be about twenty three or twenty four years old, burst into the room.
"I declare, Billy, I'm not sure but we'd better turn back," he fretted. "I didn't mean to take you to such a place as this."
The man rose at once.
"Well, by Jove!
His face showed very clearly that he did not know what to do, or what to say; but it showed, too, as clearly, that he longed to do something, or say something.
She's got a teapot I want.
"Mother, only think, I've-"
A curious expression, or rather, series of expressions crossed mrs Greggory's face.
During the brief minute that he hesitated, however, Billy sprang forward.
"Perhaps you will tell me what it would be worth to you," she concluded tremulously.
mrs Greggory must have divined, in a way, the spirit that prompted it, for her eyes grew wet, and with a choking "Dear child!" she reached out and caught Billy's hand in both her own-even while she shook her head in denial.
Will you go?"
She was conscious of a feeling which she could not name: Billy was not used to being called "these people" in precisely that tone of voice.
You will let me do it, won't you?"
And there's the tray-did you notice?" he exulted, turning back to the shelf.
"But that girl was so-so queer!" she sighed, with a frown.
Her face had grown white again.
"My name is Henshaw, Miss-Greggory, I presume," he said quietly.
He, also, was not in the habit of being referred to as "these people."
Of course you won't turn back.
"I'm afraid not," returned Billy, with a rueful laugh.
mrs Greggory gave a low cry.
His eyes sparkled.
Who are these people?" she asked sharply.
So much as that?" she cried almost joyously.
"Eleven if you can, at Park Street.
"Oh, good morning, Uncle William," she called, in answer to the masculine voice that replied to her "Hullo."
"But, madam, if you do not wish to sell-" He stopped abruptly.
"You'll find them quite perfect, I think."
"You didn't wait to let me tell you.
Well, I'll come.
Alice Greggory turned as if stung.
"I have only one other in my collection as rare," he said.
She might die ... murdered....
It had only a bunk, my tiny desk, a chair and clothes robe.
I sat up, with dr Frank vigorously rubbing me.
Nor did Prince.
I only want to talk."
The empty deck chairs stood about.
He had dropped his hydrogen torch, and tried to grip me.
"There's been an accident!
A white actinic light shot from it-caught us, bathed us. Snap had been awake; had heard the commotion of our encounter.
Is the door sealed?
Alert.
Then go to the turret.
dr Frank went back into the room and banged the cabin door upon Snap and me.
They're doing all they can." He told us what had happened.
Carter came into the chart room.
I fell like a sack of carbide to the deck.
"I'll bring him in here to you!
Upon impulse I reached for the door, jerked it open.
Miko ran with me a few steps.
Crouched at the door.
"In there." I pounded on a twenty two.
Gregg, keep those passengers back!"
"But I don't know what's happened."
Arm yourselves and guard our weapons."
He slammed the door upon me.
Send a flash for Balch!"
No one there!
His electronized metallic robe burned my hands.
The Captain said gently.
Someone was tampering with my door!
Tell Blackstone what's happened."
Get back, Gregg!
"In her stateroom,a twenty two!"
"Yes."
The door was not sealed.
I stammered, "If ... if she dies ... will you flash us word?"
Anita hurt!
Snap and I shoved back three or four passengers.
His voice rang shrilly: "Stop!
Tell them everything's all right. Miss Prince got frightened-that's all.
Carter was grim and white.
"Snap?"
Come back here!
Carter dashed up.
Come in." He admitted the older officer and slammed the door upon me again. And immediately reopened it.
"Come on!" shouted Snap.
He shoved us aside.
He had a large heat ray projector in his hand.
I searched for it, pried it loose softly.
I heard him gasp, "Good God!"
In the darkness, cylinder in hand, I crept softly from the bunk.
Then he cursed and dropped me; fled away.
"I'll be there presently, Gregg."
A brief, savage encounter.
"Burst it?
"Wasn't it sealed?"
The scream was stilled, but now we heard a commotion inside-the rasp of opening cabin doors; questions from frightened passengers.
dr Frank and I followed.
"Let me in first.
"Quiet, Gregg Haljan!
Miko!
Snap was threatening everybody with his cylinder.
Where was Miko?
"Stop that, you fools!"
dr Frank and her brother are with her.
It opened cautiously.
Get to the turret!
I'll shoot!" His warning siren rang out to alert the ship.
Where is Carter?"
I gazed around for her brother Miko, but did not see him.
Balch dashed up.
Both were closed.
The assailant opened it somehow, and assaulted Miss Prince-shot her in the chest with a heat ray.
dr Frank was in advance of Snap and me now.
But I'll kill him, I tell you!"
"Why, by God, where is he?
The turmoil of the ship gradually quieted.
"Gregg, keep the passengers quieted.
I fell helpless to the deck.
Not yet.
"He's all right now."
It struck me blank.
"But-"
dr Frank is trying ... don't stand there like an ass, man.
"Was it from in there?
Verify our trajectory-no-wait...."
"Wait a minute.
I don't mean that! Tell Snap to watch his radio room.
I entered cautiously, switched on the dimmer of the tube lights, and searched the room.
I could see only Carter, but I heard the murmuring voice of dr Frank through the interior connecting door to a twenty.
"So it's you!"
A giant man.
From within, Carter was shouting, "Keep them out!
I was in the chart room with Captain Carter, Snap and dr Frank bending over me.
Carter cut in on us from the chart room.
Oh, is that you, Balch?
Where are you, Frank?
Snap, help me keep the crowd away." He shoved me forcibly.
I heard myself stammering, "Why-why we must get him!" I gathered my wits; a surge of hate swept me; a wild desire for vengeance.
"Easy, Gregg!" dr Frank gripped me.
But she did not see who did it.
It caught me.
His spotlight clung to us.
"I'm all right." I told them what had happened.
Weapon in hand, Snap forced the panic stricken passengers back to their rooms.
Carter burst into the room.
But it had done its work-awakened me.
The Captain rasped, "Get out, Haljan!
The shock of my encounter, short circuited his robe; he materialized in the starlight.
Why don't you go get him?
"Can you speak now, Gregg?"
I shouted, "Go back to your rooms!
Captain's orders."
I tried it.
We want order here-keep back!"
I lunged against him-I was almost as surprised as he.
"Died!..." I leaped to my feet.
You look like a ghost."
The Captain was almost incoherent.
We don't want him killed, not attacked, even.
She repulsed him.
Venza, that prowler went through the smoking room!"
"Contract.
"Wait!
Why?
I gasped, "Venza!
What's going on, that's what I want to know?"
It startled me.
And the purser acting innocent?
"That's what he told me.
She leaned closer toward me.
Sober.
Why we've hardly spoken!"
The purser looked up, followed the sound with his gaze.
Good money, Gregg.
"Why do you say that?"
"Excitement?"
Do you know, from Venus to Earth, and I have no doubt on all of Mars, no man will please me more."
"Come back, Gregg!
Wild eyed, chasing a phantom-"
Gregg, I'm getting like you-too fanciful.
They wanted to know what kind of a ship this was.
Nice sort of fellow." She paused, then added, "If he's a professional entertainer, I'm a motor oiler."
Of course, a chance to make a voyage with you-"
I'll talk with him.
No!
Softer-"
"You?"
A crooked game, of course.
Venza caught my look.
They came to the corner of the deck, but turned back.
By Satan, what a flow of words that devil driver can muster!
By the stars, what else?
Listen!
"Why do you look so furtive?" she retorted.
At our table-a big, good looking blond American.
The Captain ignored my questions.
Snap introduced him as Rance Rankin.
Then I sought out Carter.
mr Rankin, you are more diplomatic."
It was good news.
There were still three seats vacant at our table; I wondered who would occupy them.
At the Captain's table I saw the objects of my search: George Prince and his sister, one on each side of the Captain.
"I mean to say, I think I said too much.
She went past me, flashed me a smile.
Big, handsome fellow, isn't he?
His pointed face, accentuated by the pointed beard, was pallid.
Go to bed, Gregg, you need rest."
"A nasty one!" the Englishman exclaimed.
"She's on the deck, having orange juice.
The ignorance-"
"The Venza, isn't that her name?
Who was it?
I ordered my breakfast and let the argument go on.
I told him what Snap and I had learned: the rays from the Moon, proving that Grantline had concentrated a considerable ore body.
I had slept heavily.
"I love an argument.
"By Jove!
We sat at the ends, with the passengers on each of the sides.
"This is Sir Arthur Coniston, an English gentleman, lecturer and sky trotter-that is, he will be a sky trotter; he tells us he plans a number of voyages."
"Johnson is all right, Gregg."
"We did, didn't we?
And as a matter of fact-"
It was located aft, on the stern deck, near the stern watch tower.
Rankin said calmly:
I was exhausted and drugged with lack of sleep.
And as pleasant as he is good looking.
They were brother and sister, these Martians.
Explain it to them, Gregg.
Rankin laughed.
A smile plucked at his thin, gray lips.
I soon learned the answer-for one seat at least.
An American-a quiet, blond fellow of thirty five or forty.
"mr
I went to my cabin.
"Does he know anything about this Grantline affair?"
The Moon had dwindled to a pin point of light beside the crescent Earth.
We were well on our course to Mars.
"A theatrical entertainer.
She was dressed in Earth fashion-white blouse and dark jacket, wide, knee length trousers of gray, with a red sash her only touch of color.
I answered her greeting, and met George Prince's casual gaze.
"I am happy to meet you, sir." His voice was soft and deep.
I proceeded to save her, in the usual way, by holding her to my heart and kissing her lovely hair reassuringly as I murmured:
How did it happen to be election time?
mr Copley looked about in every direction, but neither horse nor vehicle was to be had for love or money.
We chanced to be near a pair of low bars.
'Might I inquire,' I asked, 'if the dear little person at present reposing in my arms will stay there (with intervals for rest and refreshment) for the rest of her natural life?'
'Yes, darling, I thank you for saving my life, and I am willing to devote the remainder of it to your service as a pledge of my gratitude; but if you should take up life saving as a profession, dear, don't throw yourself on a fellow with-'
What is he doing now?'
If it had been a secular occasion, and she had dropped her handkerchief, seven eighths of the students would have started to pick it up-but I should have got there first!
I do not know.
What are you doing?'
I hadn't been a college athlete for nothing.
The barn was too far, the fence too high; I saw him coming, and there was nothing but you and the open country.
I greatly admired the pulpit, which is supported by five pillars sunk into the backs of squashed lions; but mr Copley, when I asked him the period, said, 'Pure Brummagem!'
I want to live here for ever and wave the American flag on Washington's birthday.
He will chase us, I know.
It was very natural, I'm sure; any girl would have done it.'
Kitty gave a shriek.
Jack! save me!'
But don't move; it may come again.'
She has the fullest, whitest eyelids, and the loveliest lashes.
She withdrew entirely now, all but her hand, and her eyes sought the ground.
Where is he?
'Edinburgh?
I told you this morning that I was dreadfully afraid of bulls, especially mad ones, and I told you that my nurse frightened me, when I was a child, with awful stories about them, and that I never outgrew my childish terror.
Jack!' she cried, putting her hand over my lips, and getting it well kissed in consequence.
It was the first time she had called me 'Jack,' and I needed no second invitation.
If you will step into the coffee room for an hour, I'll walk up to Farmer Hendry's and see if they will take us in.
She is gathering statistics, but as the barmaids can never collect their thoughts while they are drawing ale, Aunt Celia proceeds slowly.
The cathedral is very beautiful in itself, and its situation is beyond all words of mine to describe.
'Are you?' asked mr Copley, taking out his pencil.
She was so beautiful on Sunday.
'Merely taking note of your statement, that's all.
We were coming home from evensong, Kitty and i (I am anticipating, for she was still 'Miss Schuyler' then, but never mind.) We were walking through the fields, while mrs Benedict and Aunt Celia were driving.
Now, Miss Van Tyck' (of course Aunt Celia appeared at this delightful moment), 'I have a plan to propose.
I looked everywhere about.
I watched them and they watched her.
Of course, I took you.
She sat on the end of a seat in the nave, and there was a capped and gowned crowd of university students in the transept.
She has been wearing her favourite browns and primroses through the week, but on Sunday she blossomed into blue and white, topped by a wonderful hat, whose brim was laden with hyacinths.
I did not facilitate the preparations, and a moment of awkward silence ensued.
I think we might be fairly comfortable.'
If mr Copley can secure apartments for us, I shall be more than grateful.'
O child of fortune, thy name is j q Copley!
'Can Aunt Celia have Apollinaris and black coffee after her morning bath?' I asked.
'Yes, he is gone-she is gone, darling.
When she looks down I wish she might never look up, and when she looks up I am never ready for her to look down.
'Yes, I said so.
'I do indeed-decisive, undoubted, bare faced encouragement.'
I am so happy that I feel as if something were going to spoil it all. Twenty years old to day!
At last we started to walk to the village, mr Copley so laden with our hand luggage that he resembled a pack mule.
She arrives as soon as they can find room for her at the Three Tuns.
I was here last summer with a couple of Harvard men, and we lodged at a farmhouse about a mile distant from the cathedral.
At this juncture Aunt Celia disappeared for a moment to ask the barmaid if, in her opinion, the constant consumption of malt liquors prevents a more dangerous indulgence in brandy and whisky.
Don't be frightened.'
Why did the inns chance to be full?
So here we are, all lodging together in an ideal English farmhouse. There is a thatched roof on one of the old buildings, and the dairy house is covered with ivy, and Farmer Hendry's wife makes a real English curtsey, and there are herds of beautiful sleek Durham cattle, and the butter and cream and eggs and mutton are delicious, and I never, never want to go home any more.
Never!' she replied.
She shivered like a leaf.
'You are safe, my darling; not a hair of your precious head shall be hurt.
'I hope, Katharine,' said Aunt Celia majestically-'I hope that I can accommodate myself to circumstances.
'I don't think I ought to be judged as if I were in my sober senses,' she replied.
'I was frightened within an inch of my life.
'To be sure,' I replied soothingly, 'any girl would have run after me, as you say.'
How did Aunt Celia relax sufficiently to allow me to find her a lodging?
'I suppose I shall have to-that is, if you think-at least, I suppose you do think-at any rate, you look as if you were thinking-that this has been giving you encouragement.'
Why did she fall in love with the lodging when found?
'Jack!
'I am frightened,' she said; 'I can't help being frightened.
Well, all this is but a useless prelude, for there are facts to be considered-delightful, warm, breathing facts!
"Now, Marm Pugwash is like the minister's apples, very temptin' fruit to look at, but desperate sour.
If Pugwash had a watery mouth when he married, I guess it's pretty puckery by this time.
That are outward row I grafted myself with the choicest kind I could find, and I succeeded.
"Well, when I last seed him he was all skin and bone, like a horse turned out to die.
Well, I declare, if that are little feller ain't the finest child I ever seed.
You don't expect to disturb him this time of night, I hope?" "Oh, no," said mr Slick, "certainly not, and I am sorry to have disturbed you, but we got detained longer than we expected; I am sorry that-"
In our country," said he, turning to me, "the children are all as pale as chalk or as yaller as an orange.
Lord! that are little feller would be a show in our country.
However, if she goes to act ugly, I'll give her a dose of 'soft sawder' that will take the frown out of her frontispiece and make her dial plate as smooth as a lick of copal varnish.
As the door closed mr Slick said, "It's a pity she don't go well in gear.
It's a pity she's such a kickin' devil, too, for she has good points,--good eye, good foot, neat pastern, fine chest, a clean set of limbs, and carries a good-But here we are.
They snicker at my graftin', and I laugh in my sleeve, I guess, at their penetration.'
Well, I wish my old mother could see that child, it is such a treat.
Well, the boys think the old minister's graftin' has all succeeded about as well as that row, and they sarch no further.
I will get you a cup of tea." "I am sorry to give you so much trouble," said i "Not the least trouble in the world," she replied; "on the contrary, a pleasure."
"It's pretty well on in the evening, I guess," said he, "and Marm Pugwash is as onsartin in her temper as a mornin' in April; it's all sunshine or all clouds with her, and if she's in one of her tantrums she'll stretch out her neck and hiss like a goose with a flock of goslin's.
I wonder what on airth Pugwash was a thinkin' on when he signed articles of partnership with that are woman; she's not a bad lookin' piece of furniture, neither, and it's a proper pity sich a clever woman should carry sich a stiff upper lip.
"Good evening, marm," said mr Slick.
He was teetotally defleshed, a mere walkin' skeleton. 'I am dreadful sorry,' says I, 'to see you, Banks, lookin' so peaked. Why, you look like a sick turkey hen, all legs!
"I am sure you have had no supper," said mrs Pugwash to me; "you must be hungry, and weary, too.
What, not abed yet?
We were then shown into the next room, where the fire was now blazing up, but mr Slick protested he could not proceed without the little boy, and lingered behind to ascertain his age, and concluded by asking the child if he had any aunts that looked like mama.
She reminds me of our old minister joshua Hopewell's apple trees.
"Black eyes,--let me see,--ah, mama's eyes, too, and black hair also; as I am alive, you are mama's own boy, the very image of mama." "Do be seated, gentlemen," said mrs Pugwash.
Did you ever see," said he, again addressing me, "such a likeness between one human and another, as between this beautiful little boy and his mother?"
When we entered the house, the travelers' room was all in darkness, and on opening the opposite door into the sitting room we found the female part of the family extinguishing the fire for the night.
The strong flickering light of the fire, as it fell upon her tall, fine figure and beautiful face, revealed a creature worthy of the Clockmaker's comments.
"So am I," said she, "but if mr Pugwash will keep an inn when he has no occasion to, his family can't expect no rest."
Stole them from mama, eh?
Come here, my little man, and shake hands along with me.
Here the Clockmaker, seeing the storm gathering, stooped down suddenly, and, staring intently, held out his hand and exclaimed: "Well, if that ain't a beautiful child!
As we approached the inn at Amherst, the Clockmaker grew uneasy.
That are row next the fence, I grafted it myself: I took great pains to get the right kind.
"How do you do? and how's mr Pugwash?" "He!" said she: "why, he's been abed this hour.
mrs Pugwash had a broom in her hand, and was in the act (the last act of female housewifery) of sweeping the hearth.
BY SAM SLICK
"I never knowed but one case of a broken heart, and that was in t'other sex, one Washington Banks.
Pugwash, I guess, don't understand the natur' of the crittur; she'll never go kind in harness for him.
He was a sneezer.
This contingency caused Tom some uneasiness.
"Rather odd," commented mr Jenks.
He did not like to think that the unscrupulous men might damage the Red Cloud, that had been built only after hard labor.
"Black paper and white ink."
"There will not be much danger from wind," was mr Parker's opinion.
His face wore a rather serious air, and mr Damon, noting it, asked laughingly:
"I am going to make some observations," was the answer, and no one paid any more attention to him for some time.
Each lightning flash was followed in a second or two, by a terrific clap.
They rather expected to see the thing in white again that night, but it did not appear, and morning came without anything having disturbed their heavy sleep, for they were tired from the day's tramp.
The others looked, and saw the same weird figure that had menaced them when they were encamped on the other side of the peak.
I only hope those fellows don't find our airship and destroy it.
Then, once more, came a terrific clap!
"No," replied mr Parker, calmly, "but there is every indication that we will soon have a terrific electrical storm.
"Then we'd better fasten the tent well down," called Tom.
"The ghost again!
"From the discharges of lightning among these mountain peaks, which contain so much iron ore.
But fate had not intended the adventurers for death by lightning.
Perhaps it may not be as bad as mr Parker fears."
"I fancy they wanted it as conspicuous as possible."
A great ball of fire, pear shaped, leaped for the same spot in the mountain.
In fact, it was a very business like sort of warning.
"That was a bad one," cried mr Damon, shouting so as to be heard above the echoes of the thunderclap.
It was over in a few seconds.
They stood still-awed-not knowing what to do.
"White ink is easy enough to make," stated mr Parker.
"I hope lightning doesn't strike around here."
The fact that the scientist had not always made correct predictions was not now considered by his hearers, and Tom and the two men gazed at mr Parker in some alarm.
"It's going to be a heavy storm," Tom admitted to himself.
"There's a mass of iron ore there!" yelled mr Parker.
It was now quite dark, save when the fitful lightning flashes came, and they illuminated the scene brilliantly for a few seconds.
It will be here in less than half an hour."
"Where are you going, mr Parker?" he asked, as he saw the scientist tramping a little way up the side of the mountain.
"It's too late to do anything to night," decided Tom, as they set up the tent.
Gathered about the young inventor, the three men looked at the warning. The writing was poor, and it was evident that an attempt had been made to disguise it.
"Is there anything we can do to avoid it?" asked mr Jenks.
His voice was swallowed up in the terrific crash that followed, and, as there came another flash of the celestial fire, the figure in white could be seen hurrying back up the mountain trail.
Supper was nearly ready when mr Parker returned.
Then, by contrast, it was blacker than ever.
We will have to be on our guard."
"We are standing on a mass of iron ore!
CHAPTER fifteen-THE LANDSLIDE
"Yes," agreed Tom, "and this warning, together with the antics of the thing in white last night, shows that they are aware of our presence here, and perhaps know who we are.
"From what then?" asked mr Jenks.
The storm came on rapidly, but there was a curious quietness in the air that was more alarming than if a wind had blown.
The campfire burned steadily, and there was a certain oppressiveness in the atmosphere.
A great mass of fire, like some red hot ingot from a foundry, was hurled through the air, straight at the face of the mountain, and at the spot where the figure in white had stood but a few minutes before.
Any minute may be our last!"
"We'll rest, and start the first thing in the morning."
He pointed upward, and whispered hoarsely:
"It's possible," admitted Tom, "but now let's see if the person who pinned this warning on our tent took any of our things."
Evidently the electrical storm, with lightning bolts discharging so close, was too much for the "ghost."
Still there was no wind nor rain, and the campfire burned steadily.
In another instant it looked as if the whole place about where the diamond seekers stood, was a mass of fire.
"Do you think that fellow Munson, whom we left in the forest, could have gotten here and warned them?" asked mr Damon.
At times it would be only dimly visible in the blackness, then, suddenly it would stand out in bold relief as a great flash of fire split the clouds.
Fitful flashes of lightning could be seen forking across the sky in jagged chains of purple light.
But he knew he could accomplish nothing by worrying, and he tried to dismiss the matter from his mind.
Instantly the earth trembled, as it had at Earthquake Island, but it was not the same.
There's our friend in white!"
"That is the landslide which I predicted!
"Well, we haven't had a great deal of success-so far," admitted Tom, as they sat about the fire, in the fast gathering dusk.
"I think, perhaps, we'd better try on the other side of the mountain to morrow.
"We'll do it, and move our camp.
"Then we'd better have supper," remarked Tom, practically, "and get ready for it.
Then, as the diamond seekers looked, they saw in the glare of a score of lightning flashes that followed the one great clap, the whole side of the mountain slip away, and go crashing into the valley below.
Suddenly, as Tom was gazing up toward the peak of Phantom Mountain, he saw something that caused him to cry out in alarm.
"A landslide!" cried mr Parker.
"They must have followed us," said mr Jenks, in a low voice.
That it was coming was evident, for now low mutterings of thunder could be heard off toward the west.
It took them the greater part of the day to make a circuit of the base of Phantom Mountain in order to get to a place where a sort of trail led upward.
The meal was soon over, and Tom busied himself in looking to the guy ropes of the tent, for he feared lest there might be wind with the storm.
"Good idea," commented mr Jenks.
Slowly the figure advanced, It waved the long white arms, as if in warning.
"We are in the midst of the storm!" cried mr Parker.
"The lightning is attracted to it!"
"Well, did you discover any volcanoes, that may erupt during the night, and scare us to death?"
The thunder, meanwhile, had been growing louder and sharper, indicating the nearer approach of the storm.
"It will be bad enough," declared the gloomy scientist, and he seemed to find pleasure in his announcement.
From a high peak I caught a glimpse of one working this way across the mountains."
Almost as he spoke there came another explosion, even louder than the one preceding.
Will you absolutely take away the life of a poor innocent?" "Yes," replied the genie, "I am resolved."
"I ask a year," said the merchant; "I cannot in less settle my affairs, and prepare myself to die without regret.
When I have done this, I will come back and submit to whatever you shall please to command." "But," said the genie, "if I grant you the time you ask, I doubt you will never return?"
Allow me one word.
But I promise you, that this day twelve months I will return under these trees, to put myself into your hands." "Do you take heaven to be witness to this promise?" said the genie.
As soon as I arrived, I went forthwith to the stall where my son was kept; he could not return my embraces, but received them in such a manner, as fully satisfied me he was my son.
Sacrifice that cow; your farmer has not a finer, nor one fitter for the festival." Out of deference to my wife, I came again to the cow, and combating my compassion, which suspended the sacrifice, was going to give her the fatal blow, when the victim redoubling her tears, and bellowing, disarmed me a second time.
"I come," said he, "to communicate to you a piece of intelligence, for which I hope you will return me thanks.
I bound her, but as I was going to sacrifice her, she bellowed piteously, and I could perceive tears streaming from her eyes.
"Your slave," said she, "is dead; and as for your son, I know not what is become of him, I have not seen him this two months." I was afflicted at the death of the slave, but as she informed me my son had only disappeared, I was in hopes he would shortly return. However, eight months passed, and I heard nothing of him.
We lived together twenty years, without any children.
At my return, I enquired for the mother and child.
I went immediately to my farmer, to speak to his daughter myself.
This seemed to me very extraordinary, and finding myself moved with compassion, I could not find in my heart to give her a blow, but ordered my farmer to get me another.
I let the knife fall, and told my wife positively that I would have another calf to sacrifice, and not that.
I then put the mallet into the farmer's hands, and desired him to take it and sacrifice her himself, for her tears and bellowing pierced my heart.
Before I went, I recommended to my wife, of whom I had no mistrust, the slave and her son, and prayed her to take care of them during my absence, which was to be for a whole year.
I doubt not but in acknowledgment you will make your deliverer your wife, as I have promised." He joyfully consented; but before they married, she changed my wife into a hind; and this is she whom you see here.
I was more surprised and affected with this action, than with the tears of the cow.
Yesterday, as I carried back the calf which you would not sacrifice, I perceived she laughed when she saw him, and in a moment after fell a weeping.
Her barrenness did not effect any change in my love; I still treated her with much kindness and affection.
I leave you to judge how much I was surprised.
rather,' replied she, the calf you bring back is our landlord's son; I laughed for joy to see him still alive, and wept at the remembrance of the sacrifice that was made the other day of his mother, who was changed into a cow.
Take my advice, sacrifice no other calf but that." "Wife," I replied, "I will not sacrifice him, I will spare him, and pray do not you oppose me." The wicked woman had no regard to my wishes; she hated my son too much to consent that I should save him.
She applied herself to magic, and when she had learnt enough of that diabolical art to execute her horrible design, the wretch carried my son to a desolate place, where, by her enchantments, she changed him into a calf, and gave him to my farmer to fatten, pretending she had bought him.
She was only twelve years of age when I married her, so that I may justly say, she ought to regard me equally as her father, her kinsman, and her husband.
My wife being jealous, cherished a hatred for both mother and child, but concealed her aversion so well, that I knew nothing of it till it was too late.
As soon as my wife heard me give this order, she exclaimed, "What are you about, husband?
I leave her to your disposal, only I must pray you not to take her life." "I am going then," answered she, "to treat her as she treated your son." "To this I consent," said I, "provided you first of all restore to me my son."
Her enmity did not stop at this abominable action, but she likewise changed the slave into a cow, and gave her also to my farmer.
My wife, who was present, was enraged at my tenderness, and resisting an order which disappointed her malice, she cried out, "What are you doing, husband?
As to what relates to my wife, I also agree; a person who has been capable of committing such a criminal action, justly deserves to be punished.
Though I knew not the calf was my son, yet I could not forbear being moved at the sight of him.
The Story of the First Old Man and the Hind.
Patrick Deasey described himself as a "philosopher, psychologist, and humorist."
'twas Herself should have got it, and Herself alone!"...
From those-they were nearly always the women-who swiftly asked if he hadn't destroyed the letters, he caught shame faced gleams of the truth.
At the words, accompanied by john Jamieson-"A certain dark page of your past history-help yourself, me boy!--has been inadvertently revealed to me, but is for ever sacred in me breast!"--it was strange to see how, from the underworld of the man's mind, there would trip out the company of misshapen hobgoblins and gnomes which had been locked away in darkness, maybe, this many a year.
It was the plan which made him ultimately describe himself as a humorist.
First came the little start, the straightened figure, the pallor or flush, the shamed and suddenly lit eyes, and then-
"Well, the way of it was, you see, he put it up the chimbley, but when the chimbley sweepers come he transferred it in his weskit to my place, and I dropped it down the well.
"To look at you, ye'd think ma'am ye could never kill a fly!"
At first, when Deasey retired from the police force with a pension and an heiress with three hundred pounds, and time hung heavy on his hands, he would try to satisfy this craving through the medium of a host of small flirtations with everybody's maid.
"Well-how would I get the time to clane the childer and to wash their heads, and I working all the day at curing stinkin' hides!
When he had spoken of the chimney and the well Deasey concluded at once it was a foully murdered corpse.
"Never met a man," he was wont to say, "with no backstairs to his mind! And the quieter, decenter, respectabler, innocenter a man looked-like enough!--the darker those backstairs!"
They found it when they let the bucket down, but I wasn't his accomplice at all, 'twas only connivance with me!"
Sometimes he would allude to a "certain document," or "incriminating facts," or "certain letters"--he would ring the changes on these three, according to the sex and temperament with which he had to deal.
"It was so," said the widow.
nineteen twenty two
But these were but blackbird scratchings, as it were, upon the deep soil of the human heart.
It was partly because Patrick delighted in long words, and partly to excuse himself for being full of the sour cream of an inhuman curiosity.
And respectfully he passed the peppermints.
To ring at the front door of ordinary intercourse was not enough for him.
"Nature, I s'pose!" replied the white haired widow.
What Deasey cared about was what he called "the secrets of the soul."
As a rule, from the type that demanded the letter back, he only caught sight of the tip of the secret's ears.
What subtle instinct was it that had prompted him to add to the first unvarying words: "But all that is now past and over, and safe beneath the mouldering clay!"
In this way he could inform himself exactly how many loaves were taken by the Sweeneys for a week's consumption, as compared with those which were devoured by all the Cassidys; for whom the bottles at the Presbytery went in by the back door; and what was the real cause of the quarrel between the twin Miss McInerneys.
I only give the man a little push-that way!--and he fell over on the side, and busted all his veins!"
But always, whatever the words, whatever the nature or sex, the shot would tell.
Or-
But then, again, you could not well conceal a corpse in someone's waistcoat; and gold coins would melt or be mislaid amongst the loose bricks of a sooty chimney.
It was up these stairs he craved to go.
Indeed, it was curiously instructive how john Jamieson laid down a causeway of gleaming stepping stones, so that Deasey might cross lightly over the turgid waters of his victims' souls.
He would wait until the bar was deserted by all but the one lingering victim whom his trained eye had picked out.
"Ah, now, that would be telling!" Deasey would make reply.
At her refusal Deasey was struck with the most respectful compassion; until that hour he had never known one single lacerated soul decline this consolation.
Or-
But there were some confessions, haltingly patchy and inadequate, but hauntingly suggestive, which Deasey could neither piece out on the spot, nor yet unravel in the small hours of the night.
"'twas never found out, from that hour to this, who done it!" muttered the Widow Geraghty, "but, may the Divvle skelp me if I touch one drop of chucken tea again!"
This touch of the grey feet laid a spell on Deasey's hankering morbidity.
Deasey had craved for corpses, but nothing so grim as that had risen to his whisky bait until he tried the same old game on mrs Geraghty.
"Who told you, mr Deasey, sir?" Or "Where did you get the letter?"
'Twould madden you!"
"There come the cavalry."
Two hundred feet, therefore, brought me to the edge of the town, and I wheeled my pony and rode down behind the rear of the buildings. In turning, I looked back, and saw half a dozen mounted men already in pursuit, but I lost sight of them the next moment.
I swung myself into the saddle of the third, and flicked him with the loose ends of the bridle in a way which made him understand that I meant business.
I made a dash for the door, and as I went through it I grabbed the key and locked them in.
What seemed at the moment an incomprehensible puzzle had, as we afterwards learned, a very simple explanation.
When I turned to do so I saw the lot struggling up from the floor, and, knowing that it wouldn't take them many seconds to find their way out through the window, I didn't waste much time in watching them.
To make matters more serious, Baldwin had rounded up his cowboys and brought them along with him, in order to make any resistance impossible.
mr Cullen and Albert tried to come too, but all outsiders were excluded by order of the "court." I was told to show cause why I should not forthwith produce the letters, and answered that I asked an adjournment of the case so that I might be heard by counsel.
I made no objection to the sheriff serving the paper, though it nearly broke my heart to see Madge's face.
To escape them, I headed up the street away from the station, with the pack in close pursuit.
"I'll give you a stiff term, young man," he said.
Fortunately for me, my pursuers felt so sure of my capture that not one of them drew a bead on me.
And when I saw the judge finish off his signature with a flourish, I played a pretty desperate card.
Seeing that I understood the moves too well to be bluffed, the judge, mr Camp, and the lawyer held a whispered consultation.
This put me out of view of my pursuers for a moment, and in that instant I stood up in my stirrups, lifted the broad leather flap of the saddle, and tucked the letters underneath it, as far in as I could force them.
But the next step revealed the object, for the lawyer then asked for a search warrant to look for stolen property.
It didn't take me long to have those bridles back in place, and as I tossed each over the peak of the Mexican saddle I gave two of the ponies slaps which started them off at a lope across the railroad tracks.
To cheer her I said, suggestively, "They've got me, but they haven't got the letters, Miss Cullen.
It was a desperate place in which to hide them, but the game was a desperate one at best, and the very boldness of the idea might be its best chance of success.
I was now heading for the station over the ties, and was surprised to see Fred Cullen with Lord Ralles on the tracks up by the special, for my mind had been so busy in the last hour that I had forgotten that Fred was due.
CHAPTER eleven
THE LETTERS CHANGE HANDS AGAIN
When the train had been held at that station for a few minutes, Camp went to the conductor, demanded the cause for the delay, and was shown my telegram.
Camp, Baldwin, and the judge had left their horses just outside the saloon, and there they were still patiently standing, with their bridles thrown over their heads, as only Western horses will stand.
My surprise can be imagined when, at its conclusion, mr Camp said,--
I faltered, balancing the outwitting of Camp against State's prison, the doing my best for Madge against the wrong of it.
I think I'm as honest a fellow as the average, but I have to confess that I couldn't decide to do right till I thought that Madge wouldn't want me to be dishonest, even for her.
The moment I saw him, I rode towards him, pressing my pony for all he was worth.
The judge was equally obliging, and began to fill one out on the instant.
I threw the papers towards Fred and Lord Ralles, shouting, "Hide them!" Fred was quick as a flash, and, grabbing them off the ground, sprang up the steps of my car and ran inside, just escaping a bullet from my pursuers.
It isn't a very nice sensation to keep your ears pricked up in expectation of hearing the shooting begin, and to know that any moment may be your last.
I knew that Baldwin's cowboys could get new mounts in plenty without wasting many minutes, and that then they would overhaul me in very short order.
One of the g s directors, mr Baldwin, who had come in on mr Camp's car, was the owner of a great cattle ranch near Rock Butte.
As soon as I reached a street leading back to the railroad I turned again, and rode towards it, my one thought being to get back, if possible, to the station, and put the letters into the railroad agent's safe.
My hope was that I might get time to give Fred the tip as to where the letters were; but before I was within speaking distance Baldwin came running out from behind the station, and, seeing me, turned, called back and gesticulated, evidently to summon some cowboys to head me off.
Before I had ridden a hundred feet I realized that I had a done up horse under me, and, considering that he had covered over forty miles that afternoon in pretty quick time, it was not surprising that there wasn't very much go left in him.
But as I did so I realized that to destroy United States mail not merely entailed criminal liability, but was off color morally.
"It very appropriately means 'contempt of the court,' your honor."
I don't suppose I was on the ragged edge more than thirty seconds, but they were enough to prove to me that to keep one's back turned to an enemy as one runs away takes a deal more pluck than to stand up and face his gun.
I couldn't make out this new move, and puzzled over it, while Judge Wilson ordered my commitment.
They yelled at me to hold up, and I expected every moment to hear the crack of revolvers, for the poorest shot among them would have found no difficulty in dropping my horse at that distance if they had wanted to stop me.
"You're just too late, gentlemen," I said, pointing out the side window of the saloon.
The moment I saw that there was no escape, I put my hand in my breast pocket and took out the letters, intending to tear them into a hundred pieces.
When I reached the main street I saw that my hope was futile, for another batch of cowboys were coming in full gallop towards me, very thoroughly heading me off in that direction.
"It will take just one day to have habeas corpus proceedings in a United States court, and one more to get the papers here," I rejoined pleasantly.
It was denied, as was to have been expected; indeed, why they took the trouble to go through the forms was beyond me.
The three conspirators jumped to their feet and bolted for the window; even the sheriff turned to look.
Ash Forks, like all Western railroad towns, is one long line of buildings running parallel with the railway tracks.
I turned across the railroad tracks, and cut in behind some freight cars that were standing on a siding.
Seeing through the device, the party had at once gone to this ranch, where the owner, Baldwin, mounted them, and it was their dust cloud we had seen as they rode up to Ash Forks.
Not much matter indeed, for they were perfect enough in it before midnight.
Everywhere they wished us a merry Christmas, and we them.
Stop on the left after you have passed Fairfield Street." So we dashed up to the front of Haliburton's palace, where he was keeping his first Christmas tide.
Haliburton came running out, and begged me to bring them in.
"Merry Christmas" again with a good will, and then one of the girls began
"Hail to the night, Hail to the day,"
But I told him, "No," as soon as I could hush their shouts of "Merry Christmas;" that we had a long journey before us, and must not alight by the way. And the children broke out with
and all of them fell in so cheerily.
And on this particular year the present was a Carol party,--which is about as good fun, all things consenting kindly, as a man can have.
Ours are not the carollings of your poor shivering little East Angles or South Mercians, where they have to plod round afoot in countries where they do not know what a sleigh ride is.
"Now is the time of Christmas come,"
and
"Hail to the night, Hail to the day";
I had asked Harry to have sixteen of the best voices in the chapel school to be trained to eight or ten good Carols without knowing why.
"Carol, carol, Christians, Carol joyfully."
"King of glory, king of peace!" "Hear the song, and see the Star!" "Welcome be thou, heavenly King!" "Was not Christ our Saviour?"
And the children, whom Harry had hushed down for a square or two, broke forth with good full voice under his strong lead in
The instant the horses' bells stopped, their voices began.
Lycidas and I tumbled in on the back seat, each with a child in his lap to keep us warm; I was flanked by Sam Perry, and he by john Rich, both of the mercurial age, and therefore good to do errands.
I had invited Lycidas, because, besides being my best friend, he is the best fellow in the world, and so deserves the best Christmas eve can give him.
Off, the length of Commonwealth Avenue, to where it crosses the Brookline branch of the Mill Dam,--dashing along with the gayest of the sleighing parties as we came back into town, up Chestnut Street, through Louisburg Square,--we ran the sleigh into a bank on the slope of Pinckney Street in front of Walter's house,--and, before they suspected there that any one had come, the children were singing
Little did Clement think of bells and snow, as he taught it in his Sunday school there in Alexandria.
As the children closed with
Kisses flung from the window; kisses flung back from the street.
"The waiting world was still."
"Carol, carol, Christians, Carol joyfully; Carol for the coming Of Christ's nativity."
O, we went to twenty places that night, I suppose!
Polly had some hot oysters for them, so that the frolic was crowned with a treat.
We went to the grandest places in Boston, and we went to the meanest.
Under the full moon, on the snow still white, with sixteen children at the happiest, and with the blessed memories of the best the world has ever had, there can be nothing better than two or three such hours.
In an instant more we saw Haliburton and Anna run to the window and pull up the shades, and, in a minute more, faces at all the windows.
"When Anna took the baby, And pressed his lips to hers"--
And so the children sung through Clement's old hymn.
"First, driver, out on Commonwealth Avenue.
Harry was in front somewhere flanked in likewise, and the twelve other children lay in miscellaneously between, like sardines when you have first opened the box.
I always give myself a Christmas present.
So it was that when I came down with Lycidas to the chapel at seven o'clock, I found Harry had gathered there his eight pretty girls and his eight jolly boys, and had them practising for the last time,
O dear me! it is a scrap of old Ephrem the Syrian, if they did but know it!
and so down State Street and stopped at the Advertiser office, because, when the boys gave their "Literary Entertainment," mr Hale put in their advertisement for nothing, and up in the old attic there the compositors were relieved to hear
"Shepherd of tender sheep,"
Many things must consent, as will appear.
We did not care to disappoint them if a February thaw setting in on the twenty fourth of December should break up the spree before it began.
"The star, the manger, and the Child!"
I think the children had got inkling of what was coming, or perhaps Harry had hinted it to their mothers.
And then we came up Hanover Street and stopped under mr Gerry's chapel, where they were dressing the walls with their evergreens, and gave them
Everywhere a little crowd gathered round us, and then we dashed away far enough to gather quite another crowd; and then back, perhaps, not sorry to double on our steps if need were, and leaving every crowd with a happy thought of
First of all there must be good sleighing,--and second, a fine night for Christmas eve.
CHRISTMAS WAITS IN BOSTON.
And when, after this, Harry would fain have driven on, because two carols at one house was the rule, how the little witches begged that they might sing just one song more there, because mrs Alexander had been so kind to them, when she showed them about the German stitches.
There was a Christmas cake cut into sixteen pieces, which they took home to dream upon; and then hoods and muffs on again, and by ten o'clock, or a little after, we had all the girls and all the little ones at their homes.
"Nor war nor battle sound,"
singing with all that unconscious pathos with which children do sing, and starting the tears in your eyes in the midst of your gladness.
But perhaps to day, as they pin up the laurels and the palm in the chapel at Alexandria, they are humming the words, not thinking of Clement more than he thought of us.
Then the Italian image man heard for the first time in his life
And then up the hill and over to the North End, and as far as we could get the horses up into Moon Court, that they might sing to the Italian image man who gave Lucy the boy and dog in plaster, when she was sick in the spring.
rather a favorite,--quicker and more to the childish taste perhaps than the other,--and with another "Merry Christmas" we were off again.
At nine we brought up at my house, D Street, three doors from the corner, and the children picked their very best for Polly and my six little girls to hear, and then for the first time we let them jump out and run in.
That will tone down the horses.
and
I owe this all to you, my sweetest teacher.
The youngest Twin Sailor is very good tempered but the oldest Twin Sailor can look dreadfully fierce at times.
I think the most interesting people I know are my rock people and I mean to tell you about them.
'Well,' he said finally, 'I can't spell it but I know what it means.'
""Your afecksionate pupil,
"'Your loving pupil Paul Irving.'
I am thinking of you all the time. . . in the morning and at the noontide and at the twilight.
""Respected Miss,
I stayed there for ever so long.
You must be awful clever, teacher.'
That evening I fell downstairs and sprained my ankle and had to stay in bed for a week.
I do love you with all my heart.'
This afternoon little Jimmy Andrews was trying to spell 'speckled' and couldn't manage it.
I have never told anybody about them except grandma and father but I would like to have you know about them because you understand things.
We sailed into a great harbor, all the color of gold, and I stepped right out of the boat on a big meadow all covered with buttercups as big as roses.
Annetta Bell's worst crime was 'eating some blueberries that grew in the graveyard.' Willie White had 'slid down the sheephouse roof a lot of times with his Sunday trousers on.' 'But I was punished for it 'cause I had to wear patched pants to Sunday School all summer, and when you're punished for a thing you don't have to repent of it,' declared Willie.
"'I always met the Twin Sailors at the Striped Rocks.
It is built on the lower Carmody road.
I couldn't get the older ones to do so, but the third class answered quite freely.
Rose Bell says he was . . . also that William Tyndale WROTE the New Testament. Claude White says a 'glacier' is a man who puts in window frames!
May God watch over you and protect you from all harm.
"'Dearest teacher,
That is what makes it strange.
"Willie White's began,
It is painted blue.
Facts and Fancies
"'Then there is the Golden Lady of the cave.
They were to write the letters on real note paper, seal them in an envelope, and address them to me, all without any assistance from other people.
"'You told us to describe something strange we have seen.
Green gabels.
edward blake ClaY.'"
Now I can't go till spring, but they will be there, for people like that never change . . . that is the splendid thing about them.
"'Dearest teacher, good night.
I put "teacher" where he put "lady" and I put in something of my own when I could think of it and I changed some words.
I have my suspicions about that oldest Twin. I believe he'd be a pirate if he dared.
It is just that he has not a great deal of tact or imagination."
"'Dear teacher,
Your hair is like rippling gold.
The first night I was there we were at tea. I knocked over a jug and broke it.
Think of that, teacher, I've been in the sunset.
"'My dear teacher,
Those compositions would atone for much.
When I got better it was time to go home.
"'Yours respectfully,
"'I have kept the best for the last.
"Joseph, are you going to obey me or are you NOT?" said Anne.
I can't forget the expression in Paul Irving's eyes . . . he looked so surprised and disappointed.
"I can't help it.
How Jane would triumph!
A jonah Day
Anthony smiled . . . no, if the truth must be told, Anthony GRINNED back.
Can I take those books for you, teacher?"
She looked at Anthony Pye, and Anthony Pye looked back unabashed and unashamed.
"It doesn't seem right.
And how mr Harrison would chuckle!
Then a silence fell . . . a very creepy, uncomfortable silence.
So all her boasts had come to this . . . she had actually whipped one of her pupils.
"Anthony, was it you?"
"Throw it into the fire," said Anne.
As for Anthony Pye, why need you care if he does dislike you?
"Well, Anne, I guess you've won over Anthony Pye, that's what.
But she decided not to.
"Why is this?"
Then he dodged back just in time.
Oh, Marilla, I HAVE tried so hard to be patient and to win Anthony's liking . . . and now it has all gone for nothing."
We all make mistakes . . . but people forget them.
"Well, never mind.
She felt as guilty as if their positions were reversed; but to her unspeakable astonishment Anthony not only lifted his cap . . . which he had never done before . . . but said easily,
It was a full hour before quiet was restored . . . but it was a quiet that might be felt.
"What color are you going to have it?"
You're not going yet, Anne?"
"There must be some mistake . . . there must.
Just so was it with the Hebrew copies of God's Word.
'These Jews are dangerous.
But a furious madness had possessed the people, and they refused to yield.
fifteen.) But He saw that, even from a human standpoint, the nation could not be helped in this way, and that the Jews would only rebel against the romans to their destruction.
Josephus pleaded in vain.
Locked up in a dead language, kept close, away from the world, they were like the jar of wheat which could not grow.
These explanations, all collected together, are called 'The Talmud.' Now the learned Jews grew so fond of their Talmud, that they declared a man to be a blockhead if he knew only the Scriptures and not the Talmud explanation.
Every sheet of parchment must contain an equal number of lines, and the breadth of each column had to be thirty letters wide.
'The law of Moses is like salt, but the Talmud is balmy spice,' they would say.
If, after your copy has itself been examined, three corrections have to be made, that copy must be destroyed.'
They were looking for an earthly king, and the beautiful words spoken by the ancient prophets had no meaning to them.
'Ah, my countrymen,' he cried, 'we did nothing without God in the past, but now you are fighting against Him.
'The ink you write with must be of a pure black, made only from a mixture of soot, charcoal, and honey.
At last the end came.
The first wall fell, then the second and the third, until the Roman soldiers, now as mad as the Jews themselves, burst into the Holy City, hewing down the defenceless people at every step.
The letter 'A'--that is the Hebrew letter which stands for 'A'--occurs forty two thousand three hundred seventy seven times; the letter 'B' thirty five thousand two hundred eighteen, and so on.
The Roman soldiers hesitated, but the Jews promised most faithfully to keep their word.
He was not a Christian, but he could see plainly enough that God was no longer with His people.
Though you know the whole Book of the Law by heart, you must not write a single word from memory, but raise your eyes to your copy, and pronounce the word aloud before trusting it to your pen.
"I'm so sorry!" said Patsy, sympathetically.
He wanted capital to patent the pump and put it on the market.
"Perhaps so; at an expense that will add to your loss."
"And have a cow and some pigs!" cried the girl.
"And it's true," asserted the other.
UNCLE JOHN'S FARM.
"Somewhere at the north of the State, I believe."
"Yes, my dear.
"Pah!" said the Major, scornfully.
"It's gone, john; and you've got the farm.
"Well?"
The other fellows were too clever for my young friend, Joseph Wegg, and knocked out his patent."
The farm's the thing.
"Beth and Patsy have planned a tramp to the lake, and a row after water lilies."
"How do you get to Miss Thompson's place?"
As he appeared indisposed to say more on the subject she asked: "Did you sail with Captain Wegg?"
Dan's already now.
"I guessed it."
CHAPTER seven.
Louise Merrick was the eldest of Uncle John's nieces, having just passed her eighteenth birthday.
"Partly, miss.
This was a new sight to me, and I examined the structure with great curiosity.
I covered it carefully with dry wood and leaves and placed wet branches upon it; and then, spreading my cloak, I lay on the ground and sank into sleep.
I ate my breakfast with pleasure and was about to remove a plank to procure myself a little water when I heard a step, and looking through a small chink, I beheld a young creature, with a pail on her head, passing before my hovel.
I gradually saw plainly the clear stream that supplied me with drink and the trees that shaded me with their foliage.
I examined the materials of the fire, and to my joy found it to be composed of wood.
This was the forest near Ingolstadt; and here I lay by the side of a brook resting from my fatigue, until I felt tormented by hunger and thirst.
In one corner, near a small fire, sat an old man, leaning his head on his hands in a disconsolate attitude.
[The moon] I gazed with a kind of wonder.
Chapter eleven
"The old man had, in the meantime, been pensive, but on the appearance of his companions he assumed a more cheerful air, and they sat down to eat.
The old man returned to the cottage, and the youth, with tools different from those he had used in the morning, directed his steps across the fields.
A great fall of snow had taken place the night before, and the fields were of one uniform white; the appearance was disconsolate, and I found my feet chilled by the cold damp substance that covered the ground.
She followed, and they disappeared.
"It was dark when I awoke; I felt cold also, and half frightened, as it were, instinctively, finding myself so desolate.
No wood, however, was placed on the earth, which formed the floor, but it was dry; and although the wind entered it by innumerable chinks, I found it an agreeable asylum from the snow and rain.
Finding the door open, I entered.
Sometimes I tried to imitate the pleasant songs of the birds but was unable. Sometimes I wished to express my sensations in my own mode, but the uncouth and inarticulate sounds which broke from me frightened me into silence again.
The light became more and more oppressive to me, and the heat wearying me as I walked, I sought a place where I could receive shade.
The meal was quickly dispatched.
One was old, with silver hairs and a countenance beaming with benevolence and love; the younger was slight and graceful in his figure, and his features were moulded with the finest symmetry, yet his eyes and attitude expressed the utmost sadness and despondency.
"The moon had disappeared from the night, and again, with a lessened form, showed itself, while I still remained in the forest.
I quickly collected some branches, but they were wet and would not burn.
His appearance, different from any I had ever before seen, and his flight somewhat surprised me.
Before I had quitted your apartment, on a sensation of cold, I had covered myself with some clothes, but these were insufficient to secure me from the dews of night.
Darkness then came over me and troubled me, but hardly had I felt this when, by opening my eyes, as I now suppose, the light poured in upon me again.
The vegetables in the gardens, the milk and cheese that I saw placed at the windows of some of the cottages, allured my appetite.
In my joy I thrust my hand into the live embers, but quickly drew it out again with a cry of pain.
Nothing could exceed the love and respect which the younger cottagers exhibited towards their venerable companion.
I saw no cause for their unhappiness, but I was deeply affected by it.
I found that these people possessed a method of communicating their experience and feelings to one another by articulate sounds.
The young man and his companion often went apart and appeared to weep.
This was indeed a godlike science, and I ardently desired to become acquainted with it. But I was baffled in every attempt I made for this purpose.
"By degrees I made a discovery of still greater moment.
What did their tears imply?
It was not thus with Felix.
"This reading had puzzled me extremely at first, but by degrees I discovered that he uttered many of the same sounds when he read as when he talked.
"I could mention innumerable instances which, although slight, marked the dispositions of these amiable cottagers.
The young woman arranged the cottage and prepared the food, and the youth departed after the first meal.
"I lay on my straw, but I could not sleep.
He was always the saddest of the group, and even to my unpractised senses, he appeared to have suffered more deeply than his friends.
"A considerable period elapsed before I discovered one of the causes of the uneasiness of this amiable family: it was poverty, and they suffered that evil in a very distressing degree.
If such lovely creatures were miserable, it was less strange that I, an imperfect and solitary being, should be wretched.
"They were not entirely happy.
"This trait of kindness moved me sensibly.
In the day, I believe, he worked sometimes for a neighbouring farmer, because he often went forth and did not return until dinner, yet brought no wood with him.
When I returned, as often as it was necessary, I cleared their path from the snow and performed those offices that I had seen done by Felix.
Happy, happy earth!
This frequently took place, but a high wind quickly dried the earth, and the season became far more pleasant than it had been.
She uttered some words in a loud voice, and the youth joined her, who also expressed surprise.
From this time Felix was more employed, and the heart moving indications of impending famine disappeared.
They often, I believe, suffered the pangs of hunger very poignantly, especially the two younger cottagers, for several times they placed food before the old man when they reserved none for themselves.
I thought of the occurrences of the day.
"This day was passed in the same routine as that which preceded it. The young man was constantly employed out of doors, and the girl in various laborious occupations within.
Fit habitation for gods, which, so short a time before, was bleak, damp, and unwholesome.
I perceived that the words they spoke sometimes produced pleasure or pain, smiles or sadness, in the minds and countenances of the hearers.
Chapter twelve
"My mode of life in my hovel was uniform.
I thought (foolish wretch!) that it might be in my power to restore happiness to these deserving people.
When I slept or was absent, the forms of the venerable blind father, the gentle Agatha, and the excellent Felix flitted before me.
Yet why were these gentle beings unhappy?
I conjectured, therefore, that he found on the paper signs for speech which he understood, and I ardently longed to comprehend these also; but how was that possible when I did not even understand the sounds for which they stood as signs?
"When she had finished, she gave the guitar to Agatha, who at first declined it.
"The next morning Felix went out to his work, and after the usual occupations of Agatha were finished, the Arabian sat at the feet of the old man, and taking his guitar, played some airs so entrancingly beautiful that they at once drew tears of sorrow and delight from my eyes.
He assisted her to dismount, and dismissing her guide, conducted her into the cottage.
"I cannot describe to you the agony that these reflections inflicted upon me; I tried to dispel them, but sorrow only increased with knowledge.
The stranger learned about twenty words at the first lesson; most of them, indeed, were those which I had before understood, but I profited by the others.
On hearing this word, Felix came up hastily to the lady, who, when she saw him, threw up her veil, and I beheld a countenance of angelic beauty and expression.
Was man, indeed, at once so powerful, so virtuous and magnificent, yet so vicious and base?
A man might be respected with only one of these advantages, but without either he was considered, except in very rare instances, as a vagabond and a slave, doomed to waste his powers for the profits of the chosen few!
Agatha asked a question, to which the stranger only replied by pronouncing, in a sweet accent, the name of Felix.
She played a simple air, and her voice accompanied it in sweet accents, but unlike the wondrous strain of the stranger.
When they separated Felix kissed the hand of the stranger and said, 'Good night sweet Safie.' He sat up much longer, conversing with his father, and by the frequent repetition of her name I conjectured that their lovely guest was the subject of their conversation.
When I looked around I saw and heard of none like me.
She did not appear to understand him, but smiled.
It surprised me that what before was desert and gloomy should now bloom with the most beautiful flowers and verdure.
I ardently desired to understand them, and bent every faculty towards that purpose, but found it utterly impossible.
And what was I? Of my creation and creator I was absolutely ignorant, but I knew that I possessed no money, no friends, no kind of property.
I heard of the division of property, of immense wealth and squalid poverty, of rank, descent, and noble blood.
Felix replied in a cheerful accent, and the old man was recommencing his music when someone tapped at the door.
Chapter thirteen
And even more contemptible than that is my making this remark now.
Of course I had better not go; of course, I must just snap my fingers at them.
My schoolfellows met me with spiteful and merciless jibes because I was not like any of them.
But I will talk about that fellow, about that plague of mine, another time.
"It's not an official gathering."
Please don't..."
I stole the brushes to clean them from the passage, being careful he should not detect it, for fear of his contempt.
I had not been treated like that even at school, though they all hated me.
As he walked he began to stamp with his heels.
This Zverkov had been all the time at school with me too.
Oh, how I prayed for the day to pass quickly!
At last my wretched little clock hissed out five.
I got the better of him on that occasion, but though Zverkov was stupid he was lively and impudent, and so laughed it off, and in such a way that my victory was not really complete; the laugh was on his side.
What woke me was a noise-a sharp suppressed yelp.
A DROLL FOX TRAP
I thought it might have been an owl.
No algebra was needed to figure the outcome of the turkey business at this rate, together with our prospective profits, in the light of this new fact.
It was the "silver gray."
"Some," said Tom; and that was all I could get from him that night.
He then practiced squeaking and rustling several times to be sure that all was in good trim.
We sold the fox skin in the village, and received thirteen dollars for it, whereas a common red fox skin is worth no more than three dollars.
An hour passed.
Rightly or wrongly, we attributed the mischief to a certain "silver gray" that had several times been seen in the neighborhood that autumn.
He owned to me that when the fox bit him on the chin, he let go of the brute, and would have given up the fight, but that the fox had then actually attacked him.
I do not think that he ever cared to make a fox trap of himself again, however.
As I ran, two or three dull whacks came to my ear.
The next day, Tom told me that the fox had suddenly plunged into the grass, that he had caught hold of one of its hind legs, and that they had rolled over and over in the grass together.
At the time of my story, my friend Tom Edwards (ten years of age) and myself were in the turkey business, equal partners.
"Let him bite," said Tom.
"And don't foxes catch mice?" demanded Tom, confidently.
Considering the fact that a fox is a very active, sharp biting animal, and that this was an unusually large male, I have always thought Tom got off very well.
Tom must have grown pretty tired of squeaking.
His left hand was bitten through the palm, and badly swollen.
"Bite ye?" I exclaimed, after satisfying myself that the fox was dead.
They did, certainly; they savored as strongly of mice as Tom's question of bad grammar.
Full of wonder and curiosity, I retired to the stump.
I could see objects at a little distance through the crack, but could not see so far as the stump.
"But how?" I asked.
"But a fox would bite you," I objected.
All went well till the last week in October, when, on taking the census one morning, a turkey was found to be missing; the thirty one had become thirty since nightfall the previous evening. It was the first one we had lost.
Their sharp, cur like barks used often to rouse us, and of a dark evening we would hear them out in the fields, "mousing" around the stone heaps, making a queer, squeaking sound like a mouse, to call the real mice out of their grass nests inside the stone heaps. This, indeed, is a favorite trick of Reynard.
Our suspicions were divided.
It was, as we regarded it, one of those unfortunate occurrences which no care on our part could have well foreseen, and a casualty such as turkey raisers are unavoidably heirs to, and we bore our loss with resignation.
But Tom overcame me forthwith, choked me nearly black in the face, then, in dumb show, knocked my head with a stone.
How, or by what wiles that fox got the turkeys out of the high butternut, is a secret-one that perished with him.
I recollect that we set three traps for him to no purpose, and that we borrowed a fox hound to hunt him with, but merely succeeded in running him to the burrow in a neighboring rocky hill side, whence we found it quite impossible to dislodge the wily fellow.
"Now be off," said Tom, "and don't come poking around, nor get in sight, till you hear me holler."
"Got him, Tom?" I shouted, rushing up.
"I'll resk him when once I get these two bread hooks on him.
Thus exhorted, I went into the barn and established myself at a crack on the back side, which looked out upon the field where Tom was ambushed.
This put a new and altogether ugly aspect on the matter.
Instantly two spry brown hands from out the nest clutched me with a most vengeful grip.
Selecting a nook in the edge of a clump of raspberry briars which grew about a great pine stump, Tom lay down, and I covered him up completely with the contents of the big basket.
Tom thought it was "the Twombly boys," nefarious Sam in particular.
"D'ye see, now!" he demanded.
This dilemma of ours developed Tom's genius.
This theory received something of a check when our flock counted only twenty nine the next morning.
It would take far too much space to relate in detail the plans we laid and put in execution to catch that fox during the next two weeks.
We proceeded to look for traces.
A sound of scuffling and tumbling on the ground at some distance assisted my wandering wits, and I rushed out of the barn and ran toward the field.
There were red foxes, "cross grays," and "silver grays;" even black foxes were reported.
These numerous bites, however, were followed by no serious ill effects.
His squeaks were perfect successes-made by sucking the air sharply betwixt his teeth.
It was clear that something must be done, and at once, too, or ruin would swallow up the poultry firm.
He brought a two bushel basket and went out into the fields.
We owned a flock of thirty one turkeys.
That night we set ourselves to put the stratagem in operation.
There were more fox tracks, and a great many more feathers under the tree.
By c a Stephens
I saw.
These animals were the pests of the farm yards, and made havoc with the geese, cats, turkeys, and chickens.
As a fox, I struggled tremendously.
We took the fox to the house and lighted a candle.
With the dusk we stole out into the field where the stone heaps were, and where we had oftenest heard foxes bark.
At that time in Cripple Creek, several boys ranging from a day to six weeks old, whose destinies were thought to be promising, were afflicted with my master's ponderous name.
But the guests didn't eat much.
Coonskin said he was an experienced woodman, and would blaze the trees so we would get out again.
"What would you do if you saw a bear?" Pod asked.
Pod said the scene was without a parallel; he was soaked to his equator; the half christened, half drowned Pythagorina Podina was picked up from the flood with a tablespoon, and the ceremony finished; then she was rolled on the barrel to get all the water out of her, and put to bed with hot flatirons at her feet to prevent croup and mumps.
Pod went fishing that afternoon with a gun, and took the whole arsenal along with him, including the axe.
"Lots of petrified wood chips lying around," I remarked; "and they'll last.
His hard wood fire wasn't very satisfactory, but with some dry brush the men got the meal under way.
The ladies looked at the dog, and then at Pod, not knowing which to thank, then feeling sensitive about accepting the best part of the steak, insisted upon Pod's having one of their pieces and Coonskin the other; and both men being kind and gallant accepted the compliment, and all fell to eating.
"Smells as if the woods were on fire somewhere," hinted Pod.
He said the babe was an unruly child, and kicked so frantically when the priest took her in his arms that two flatirons were tied to its feet to keep them down.
When Pod returned he told him he had seen huge bear tracks; he was going bear hunting.
Somewhere about five o'clock Pod came into camp with a good mess of trout.
You could see plainly from their appetites that they were telling the truth. After supper Don feasted on the tougher parts of the steak, and we donks were fed the scraps of potatoes and bread and tin tomato and peach cans.
"The only trouble will be in starting the fire," said Pod.
Pod got up from the ground excitedly.
When the banquet was over the guests went home.
He lagged behind to do the blazing; and pretty soon I smelt smoke.
I don't believe the child understood a word that the priest said; Pod didn't.
"Coonskin's in trouble, plain enough," said Pod aloud to himself, "I must run to his aid." So he started on a trot down stream to the bend, and then quickly turned, falling all over himself, and ran toward the cabins faster than I ever saw him run before or since.
Coonskin learned a new lesson, and turned down the corner of the page so he'd recollect it.
He said he had seen some trout in the stream; by supper time he had caught a nice mess.
Pod objected at first, because of the scarcity of fire wood.
"Well, now leave that to me," said Coonskin.
I think they were guessing at it, for I couldn't see the rings, and even if I had seen them with a telescope a fellow couldn't live long enough to count them.
They said they had just had dinner.
It was comical how those two men puzzled their brains about that missing commodity. When Coonskin detected some meal stamped in the ground, Pod pointed at me and said, "That's the thief, there."
The Professor snuffed.
Fortunately for us the wind wasn't blowing strong, but we had to change our course some, and hustle faster, for the blazing trail chased us.
The happy father called personally on Pod and asked him to act as godfather at the baptismal service, Sunday afternoon.
The shouting sounded nearer every second, and I soon distinguished Coonskin's voice.
Next morning we visited the noted petrified stump, measuring upwards of forty five feet in circumference.
Then the wake broke up.
That was my experience in the woods of Wisconsin.
I couldn't see any turkeys, but there was good pasturage around.
Pod devoted Monday morning to business, and took in a good stock of supplies, and after lunch we set out on the trail to Florisant, about twenty miles away.
"I think best to go through the woods," said the valet.
After Pod had explained the meaning of the word "blaze" in this case, the fellow was more put out than the fire.
That night he got up a fine supper, and invited some old friends. He bought a big porterhouse steak, thick and tender, and personally broiled it on his patent folding stove.
Ordinary wood burns up too fast."
Pod laughed at him.
Next morning, Coonskin was the first to return from fishing, and looked much excited.
Then Coonskin went fishing.
Several times I had a suspicion that we had been misdirected.
So when the priest was handed the tiny thing in swaddling clothes and held it over the barrel that served as the font, the poor girl was frightened and squirmed, and suddenly slipped out of the priest's arms into the barrel and sank out of sight.
A board sign informed us it was simply Turkey Creek.
It was three o'clock when we donks were picketed and allowed to graze.
"Just as soon as it's once going, it ought to burn smoothly enough-might pour coal oil on the chips. What do you say, Coonskin?"
About six o'clock we went into camp on the margin of a famous petrified forest.
A silvertip would be a boon to you, Prof; its skin would fetch fifty dollars or more. Let's look for bear."
Coonskin's opinion didn't benefit Pod much.
We journeyed until ten at night, stopping at Florisant only a few minutes to buy a crate of peaches.
A little green eyed Irish girl, five days old, was named Pythagorina Podina Mulgarry.
Pod didn't say anything, though, but just forked it on to the platter and scraped off some dry grass and a sliver and a bug, and carved it up and generously put it on the ladies' plates.
At length we struck a trail which led to a couple of cabins in the canyon.
Our tramp through the forest I cannot soon forget.
And Coonskin went to work gathering petrified wood for the supper fire.
Pod said he would fry the fish, and went at it so enthusiastically that he forgot to put the bag of corn meal back in its place.
"What do you say?" Pod inquired, turning to Coonskin.
Pod looked at me and I looked at Pod; I hadn't anything to say on the subject; it didn't interest me as much as it did Coonskin.
It has been estimated by various ornithologists, botanists and entomologists that the stump is millions of years old.
"He has killed a bull, chewed up a ram, made Thanks giving mince meat of several dogs, chased a pig up a tree, and only this morning ate two chickens and a duck and chased a farmer into his hay loft.
I expected that day to reach Dalton, only eight miles distant, but the mud prevented me.
"'Course it's cold!" I answered, acridly.
The citizens expected my arrival, and Market street teemed with excitement.
I witnessed the leave taking at his house, his ride to the train in the coach drawn by four greys under escort of a band, and heard him deliver his farewell address from the rear platform of his private car.
I was mad enough to unload my Winchester.
I first ate the cake of chocolate, then some sugar, and drank two dippersful of hot water,--then shook myself.
Canton did him honor.
I shouted several times before the rig stopped.
In front of two hotels, a block apart, stood their proprietors waving hats and arms, and calling to me to be their guest.
As it swung open, in leaped my great dog; at once the crowd surged back to the stove.
The village treasurer wore a "boiled shirt" and brass collar buttons, but no collar or coat.
I returned to Massillon, and at four p m, set out for Dalton over the muddiest, stickiest red clay roads I ever encountered.
The pageant that celebrated the departure of William McKinley to the seat of Government was a fair estimate of the regard in which his fellow citizens held him.
That theatre put me way ahead financially.
It was so deep, and sticky, and liberally diluted with thawed frost that once I was compelled to crawl along the top of a rail fence two hundred feet and more, and drag my jackass.
Now, if you are satisfied that it is a cold day, I will bid you good night."
It sounded like, "Won't you come in and warm, and have lunch," I hesitated a moment in the biting wind, then retraced my steps and called to the lad: "What's that you said?"
Thursday morning I called on the Mayor, Mark Hanna and Senator Garfield, and added the autographs of all three to my album.
I was puzzled to know which invitation to accept.
From Willoughby we went to Cleveland.
We two were engaged to appear at the Star Theatre Wednesday evening, and when I rode out on to the stage the house shook with laughter and cheers.
I went and enjoyed myself.
I was almost frozen.
The yeast cake came to mind; then I knew the cause.
From there we marched to Superior street, where cheers greeted us on every hand.
I left a few things unmolested; such as soap, cornstarch, cloves, baking powder and stove polish.
That mixture might suit my stomach, I thought, but it doesn't delight my palate.
I was successful, beyond my hopes and expectations, securing fine pictures of his study and parlor.
The President's inauguration at Washington called forth a deafening demonstration.
"It's a cold day!" yelled the scamp.
"Yes, pretty chilly," I returned, politely.
He said the town hadn't reached the hotel stage of development yet, but that he would gladly take me in, provided I'd sleep with his clerk in the garret.
The village dates back to pioneer days.
"No," I said.
Then a woman drove past and tossed me the comforting reminder: "Don't you find it awfully cold?" I did not reply to the last two.
But he doesn't bite."
We three had covered eighteen miles that day; it seemed twice the distance.
"Pretty cold, hain't it, Professor?"
"You bet," said Pod, icily.
A store loomed into view shortly; I was elated. According to the sign over the entrance, the younger generation was the ruling power.
I put my foot in it-the genuine red and yellow mixture of real Ohio clay.
The human volcano was now ready to burst.
If not, don't let your curiosity get the better of you.
With this I returned to my companions, somewhat warmer physically, but cooler in spirit.
While deliberating, one of the landlords approached, and taking my arm, led me to his comfortable hostelry, where he royally entertained me and my animals.
My assorted supper went down all right until I tackled the chocolate.
I have tramped nearly twenty miles without stopping to warm or eat; and I resolved to let the next fellow have the same dose I have been taking half hourly all day.
It looked as though spring had come to stay.
These rural men eyed me with suspicion until I mentioned Mac A'Rony.
Chocolate is a favorite beverage of mine; besides, I wanted a hot drink.
Something within was sizzling and brewing and steaming; gas and steam choked me.
I saw a meadow lark on the first of March; this day I heard blue birds and robins singing gaily.
I found the store full of loungers, who patronized the chairs, soap and starch boxes, mackerel kits and counter, forming a silent circle round a towering stove in the center.
I made a short address and announced that I would sell photos of Mac A'Rony and his master at the door.
pure), a pint of corned oysters (light weight), some crackers, and leaf lard, to take the place of butter, and a cake of bitter chocolate.
My route through the beautiful city lay along one of the finest residence streets in America-the famous Euclid avenue.
Then there was a rush to the door.
At dusk I had covered only three miles.
Next day I reached the village of Bedford by seven p m, only making thirteen miles; and the following night I put up at a cozy inn at Cuyahoga Falls.
I was sorry, too.
I must tell him to write in good time next year if he wants a room."
"I feel safer with them.
He went first to the post office, where he registered and posted to Scotland Yard a packet he had brought with him.
Here he made himself known to the inspector, and imparted information which made that personage open his eyes considerably wider than was his custom.
"If you will bring one of your men, and come with me yourself," said Gimblet, at the conclusion of the interview, "I think I shall be able to convince you that a mistake has been made.
There was no great difficulty about it.
Girls are kittle cattle, but I've got quite fond of that one, and I hope she's not forgotten poor David so soon.
It is humiliating to relate that he recoiled before it when it was placed in his hand, and nearly fled again into the road.
I expect you will find Miss Byrne up there.
She ought to know better than to go to lunch alone with a young man, and I am just wondering if she has changed her mind and accepted him after all.
But, though the girl looked back more than once, the little man in the ulster who was so intent on picking his way between the puddles did not apparently provide her with any food for suspicion; and she made no attempt to see who was so carefully sheltered beneath the umbrella he carried.
A friend, he explained, had promised to meet him in that place; and though the shopwoman plainly doubted his veracity, and kept a sharp eye that he did not take to his heels with the cairngorm, she did not go so far as to suggest his removing himself from the zone of temptation.
"I suppose you get a lot of tourists passing through, though, Americans, for instance?"
"By all means," said Lady ruth.
I really am feeling anxious about her."
Then, after asking his way of the sociable landlord of the hotel, he proceeded to the police station, a single storied stone building standing at the end of a side street.
By the time he issued forth into the open air, his pockets full of packages, the stranger had passed the shop and was turning the corner of the next house.
Waited for accordingly he was; and in a few minutes Gimblet, rather out of breath after his run, hurried on board, and with a word of apology and thanks to the obliging skipper turned, like the other passengers, towards the shelter of the cabin.
She has not come in to lunch, and I think she probably met Mark and went to lunch at the castle.
To him, now, Gimblet devoted his powers of shadowing.
He was a tall, fair man, evidently a foreigner, but with nothing very striking about his appearance.
It was nearly three o'clock when they landed on the Inverashiel pier.
"Dear me," said Gimblet, "just what my friend wants.
However, he pulled himself together and held the proud proprietress, a gaunt, grey haired woman with knitting needles ever clicking in her dexterous hands, in conversation upon the theme of its unique beauties until the subject was exhausted to the point of collapse.
CHAPTER sixteen
Gimblet conducted the men to the cottage, where Lady ruth anxiously awaited them.
At last, when for the twentieth time he put his nose round the doorpost, he saw that the pair had separated, and were walking in opposite directions, the girl continuing on her way, while the man returned to the town.
I'm sorry you can't take him in.
"I daresay she has only walked farther than she intended," said Gimblet, "or perhaps she came to a burn or some place she couldn't get over, and has had to go round a mile or two.
The landlord was sorry, but the house was full.
"And there's troots tac.
As the few passengers who were waiting for her crossed the short gangway, a shower burst over the loch and in a few minutes had driven every one into the little cabin, except the two or three men who constituted the officers and crew of the steamer.
One of these was in the act of slackening the rope by which the boat had been warped alongside, when a running, gesticulating figure appeared in the distance, shouting to them to wait for him.
For ten long minutes they stood talking, driving poor Gimblet to the desperate expedient of entering the shop and demanding a closer acquaintance with the cairngorm.
The detective turned his back while the fair man got in and pushed off into the loch.
He kept, however, a strict eye on the door of the hotel, and after a quarter of an hour saw the object of his attentions emerge with fishing rod and basket, and cross the road directly towards him.
The young lady was still in sight, making her way up the steep pitch of the main street, and the detective followed her discreetly, loitering before shop windows, as if fascinated by the display of Scottish homespuns, or samples of Royal Stewart tartan, and taking an extraordinary interest in fishing tackle and trout flies.
Just as he decided that the distance separating them had increased to an extent which warranted his continuing the chase, he joyfully saw her slacken her pace, and at the same moment a man, who must have been sitting behind a boulder beside the road, rose to his feet out of the heather, and came forward to meet her.
"If you don't mind their staying here," he suggested to her, "while I go up to the castle and consult Lord Ashiel about a magistrate, it will be most convenient, on account of the distance."
"Indeed, I can well believe that," Gimblet assured him.
Gimblet had not been able to see his face before, but now he had a good look as he passed close beside him.
From this position-not without its embarrassments, since a couple of barefooted children came instantly to the door, where they stood and stared at him unblinkingly-he saw the Russian advancing at a rapid pace across the moor; and, look where he would, could perceive no means of keeping up with her unobserved upon the bare side of the hill.
"What should detain her," demanded his wife, "unless it is the discovery of her parents?
At this point Lady Byrne came into the room, and the news had to be retold for her benefit; the letter was produced again, and she joined heartily in the excitement it had caused.
"I shall be perfectly all right by myself," Juliet protested.
Sir Arthur did not like it.
Juliet enjoyed every moment of the journey; and would have been sorry when the crossing was over if she had not been so eager to set foot upon her native soil.
"Then why do you say it's something I don't often get?" asked Juliet suspiciously; "I often get letters.
She dressed quickly, in the gayest humour, but with even more care than she usually bestowed upon her appearance; a subject to which she always gave the fullest attention.
The next twenty minutes were spent in cross examining the hotel porter as to the time it would take to drive to her destination, and, having decided to start at ten minutes to twelve, in wondering whether the quarter of an hour which had still to elapse would ever come to an end.
She got up at once and looked out of the window.
"Oh well, I don't know.
You will hardly be ready to start to morrow, will you?"
"You must be glad to be going home," she ventured.
"I don't believe I shall be able to get on without my eldest daughter," he replied, half serious.
After breakfast they went out, and, inquiring their way to Bond Street, flattened their noses against the shop windows to their mutual satisfaction.
She found her maid-who had been one of the most sea sick of those aboard-and assisted her ashore, put her into a carriage and ministered to her wants with the help of a tea basket containing the delicious novelty of English bread and butter.
"Inside?
"That very one," Juliet assured her, undaunted; and was arrayed in it, in spite of obvious disapproval.
So does Margaret.
They had it almost to themselves, for there were not many people left in that part of London; but more than one head was turned to gaze at the pretty girl in the garden party dress, who stood transfixed before shop after shop.
No doubt, she thought, when the ship stopped and they felt better, they would be more disposed to a sentimentality like hers.
"If you promised her not to ask, I won't ask either," said Juliet loyally.
She was going to hear tremendous news that day; make wonderful discoveries about her birth; hear undreamt of things.
They displayed anxiety enough to reach land; but, as far as she could see, what land it was they reached was a matter of indifference to them.
I know the firm of Findlay and Ince quite well by name and reputation."
"I could be ready, easily," said Juliet.
He read it through carefully.
"Supposing she is detained in London," he said.
It is much better that they should learn to manage their own affairs; and Juliet is not such a ninny as you seem to think."
"Hullo, what's this?"
She was to lodge at a small hotel in Jermyn Street; and on that first evening even this seemed perfect to her.
"But I hope they'll tell me.
One hot summer day, a few months after the marriage, Juliet, returning to the consulate after a morning spent in very active exercise upon a tennis court, was met on the doorstep by Dora, the youngest of the Clarency Butchers, who was awaiting her approach in a high state of excitement.
"Go?
Margaret was the next sister.
I've got a lot of work on hand just now.
She felt that the weather was playing up to the occasion, as became this important morning of her life. For that it was important she did not doubt.
"DEAR MADAM,--We shall esteem it a favour if you can make it convenient to call upon us one day next week, upon a matter of business connected with a member of your family.
You never did before since we've been here.
"It's a far cry north to my home," said the Scotchwoman, thawing slightly.
"They'll be local men, I have nae doubt.
"I would, like a shot," he replied, "but I can't possibly get away next week.
In any case, she can write, or cable to us when she has seen the solicitors, and it is no use providing for contingencies that will probably never arise."
"No; at least I suppose not; but there may be one inside."
"I have been abroad during a considerable period," replied the person she addressed, a stern looking Scotchwoman who did not appear anxious to enter into conversation.
"A present?"
She departed with an injured air, and Juliet went to look for the consul.
"Guess!"
You are the child of a friend of hers.
Something you don't often get!"
It was a large envelope, addressed in a clerk's handwriting, and she came to the conclusion, as she tore it open, that it must be an advertisement from some shop.
"What is it?" he asked, as she put the envelope into his hand.
Juliet could get no enthusiasm out of her; and, look which way she might, she could not see any reflection on the faces of those around her of the emotions which stirred in her own breast.
I often think that if she had lived she would have told you before now."
What she would do without Juliet to help her in preparing for them, she did not know, but at least it was obvious that some one must be there to receive his guests.
Lady Byrne declared that it was impossible for her to do so: she had engagements, she said, for every day of the following week, which it was out of the question to break.
It was a glorious August day.
Why not?"
"No, no; I see no reason to suppose such a thing.
The journey north is awful' expensive."
In a few days.
"I could never find another father half as nice as the one I've got.
That is all I know.
"Not from you." Juliet put her arm through his.
I'll be stopping in the south with some friends.
On Monday morning she left Ostend, in the company of her maid.
Well, well."
'Something to your advantage!' Just what they put in the agony column when they leave you a fortune.
As a matter of fact she was a good deal excited now; for what the child said was true enough.
She was prepared for anything, or so she said to herself, however astounding; and, that being so, she was excited in proportion.
"She'd be awful mad if you was to come out here and dance with us."
He could never learn like other people, never acquired any finish.
Her manner was cold, and she talked little.
Guests felt that they were receiving, not conferring, a favor when they stayed at her house.
Now, gentlemen, I expect you've all got grand voices.
The windows were open.
In the middle of a crashing waltz d'Arnault suddenly began to play softly, and, turning to one of the men who stood behind him, whispered, "Somebody dancing in there." He jerked his bullet head toward the dining room.
I learned that mrs Gardener had gone to Omaha to hear Booth and Barrett, who were to play there next week, and that Mary Anderson was having a great success in "A Winter's Tale," in London.
"Oh, we'll make it all right with Molly.
Whenever she caught him slipping away from the cabin, she whipped him unmercifully, and told him what dreadful things old mr d'Arnault would do to him if he ever found him near the "Big House." But the next time Samson had a chance, he ran away again.
One of these city gentlemen, I bet! Now, you girls, you ain't goin' to let that floor get cold?"
Kirkpatrick caught Tiny by the elbows.
Johnnie shook his head.
They separated and fled toward the kitchen, giggling.
"You'll wake the cook, and there'll be the devil to pay for me.
He was always a negro prodigy who played barbarously and wonderfully.
"She seems all right, gentlemen.
mrs Gardener was admittedly the best dressed woman in Black Hawk, drove the best horse, and had a smart trap and a little white and gold sleigh. She seemed indifferent to her possessions, was not half so solicitous about them as her friends were.
They found he had absolute pitch, and a remarkable memory.
When I stole into the parlor Anson Kirkpatrick, Marshall Field's man, was at the piano, playing airs from a musical comedy then running in Chicago. He was a dapper little Irishman, very vain, homely as a monkey, with friends everywhere, and a sweetheart in every port, like a sailor.
He wore his teachers out.
Mary Dusak was broad and brown of countenance, slightly marked by smallpox, but handsome for all that.
Have I got you all straight?"
Tiny looked alarmed. "mrs Gardener would n't like it," she protested.
He was born in the Far South, on the d'Arnault plantation, where the spirit if not the fact of slavery persisted.
Get your back up, Johnnie."
She was tall, dark, severe, with something Indian like in the rigid immobility of her face.
Now, you're Lena, are you?--and you're Tony and you're Mary.
He heard the door close after them.
He was a popular fellow, but no manager.
I walked home with Antonia.
The doctor came and gave him opium.
He could always detect the presence of any one in a room.
He thought about that, but he pulled in his other foot.
Come along, nobody'll tell tales."
No ladies here?
The girls, still laughing, were trying to escape.
"Oh, what do you care, Johnnie?
She seemed to understand, though I was too faint and miserable to go into explanations.
Then mrs Cutter told her story.
Her cry of fright awakened me. Truly, I was a battered object.
She had n't liked the way he kept coming into the kitchen to instruct her, or the way he looked at her.
The third night I spent at the Cutters', I awoke suddenly with the impression that I had heard a door open and shut.
The day after the Cutters left, Antonia came over to see us.
He bought her ticket and put her on the train.
She spent the whole morning bathing and poulticing me, and rubbing me with arnica.
Since the scandal about the Swedish girl, Wick Cutter could never get his wife to stir out of Black Hawk without him.
Grandmother noticed that she seemed troubled and distracted.
My lip was cut and stood out like a snout.
I'd make up my bed nice and fresh for you.
I held my breath and lay absolutely still.
"I advised her to control herself, or she would have a stroke," grandmother said afterwards.
"I feel as if he is up to some of his tricks again, and is going to try to scare me, somehow."
The agent said his face was striped with court plaster, and he carried his left hand in a sling.
My nose looked like a big blue plum, and one eye was swollen shut and hideously discolored.
There stood mrs Cutter,--locked out, for she had no key to the new lock-her head trembling with rage.
I found that I slept there as well as anywhere, and when I got home in the morning, Tony had a good breakfast waiting for me.
I know your tricks! Wait till I get at you!
I was only half awake, but I decided that he might take the Cutters' silver, whoever he was.
The next thing I knew, I felt some one sit down on the edge of the bed.
So long as Cutter had me by the throat, there was no chance for me at all. I got hold of his thumb and bent it back, until he let go with a yell.
She would be perfectly safe, he said, as he had just put a new Yale lock on the front door.
I was afraid to leave the window open last night."
She saw him slip a twenty dollar bill into her handbag with her ticket.
Where is she, you nasty whelp, where is she?
A hand closed softly on my shoulder, and at the same moment I felt something hairy and cologne scented brushing my face.
Certainly Cutter liked to have his wife think him a devil.
I could n't sleep much last night." She hesitated, and then told us how strangely mr Cutter had behaved before he went away.
She had let me in for all this disgustingness.
I caught a handful of whiskers and pulled, shouting something.
Antonia turned to me eagerly.
They found the place locked up, and they had to break the window to get into Antonia's bedroom.
Under the bed, are you, hussy?
Isabel came back to Florence, but only after several months; an interval sufficiently replete with incident.
Her conception of human motives might, in certain lights, have been acquired at the court of some kingdom in decadence, and there were several in her list of which our heroine had not even heard.
She was so fond of the spectacle of human life that she enjoyed even the aspect of gathering dusk in the London streets-the moving crowds, the hurrying cabs, the lighted shops, the flaring stalls, the dark, shining dampness of everything.
CHAPTER thirty one
A few days after her arrival Gilbert Osmond descended from Florence and remained three weeks, during which the fact of her being with his old friend Madame Merle, in whose house she had gone to lodge, made it virtually inevitable that he should see her every day.
She accomplished this journey without other assistance than that of her servant, for her natural protectors were not now on the ground. Ralph Touchett was spending the winter at Corfu, and Miss Stackpole, in the September previous, had been recalled to America by a telegram from the Interviewer.
The two ladies accordingly embarked on this expedition, and spent three months in Greece, in Turkey, in Egypt.
Grave she found herself, and positively more weighted, as by the experience of the lapse of the year she had spent in seeing the world.
She wished rather to forestall his arrival by a process of conjecture, and to judge by the expression of her face this attempt gave her plenty to do.
She made her way down to Rome without touching at Florence-having gone first to Venice and then proceeded southward by Ancona.
She was alone on this occasion, in one of the smaller of the numerous rooms devoted by mrs Touchett to social uses, and there was that in her expression and attitude which would have suggested that she was expecting a visitor.
Madame Merle remarked that her friend was restless, but she added that she herself had always been consumed with the desire to visit Athens and Constantinople.
Well was I ware that I was more uplifted By the enkindled smiling of the star, That seemed to me more ruddy than its wont.
And not yet from my bosom was exhausted The ardour of sacrifice, before I knew This offering was accepted and auspicious;
Therefore should not appear a marvellous thing What I shall say of the great Florentines Of whom the fame is hidden in the Past.
And I have seen a ship direct and swift Run o'er the sea throughout its course entire, To perish at the harbour's mouth at last.
And as are spanned athwart a tender cloud Two rainbows parallel and like in colour, When Juno to her handmaid gives command,
Knighthood and privilege from him received; Though with the populace unites himself To day the man who binds it with a border.
I've not so spoken that thou canst not see Clearly he was a king who asked for wisdom, That he might be sufficiently a king;
Ever the intermingling of the people Has been the source of malady in cities, As in the body food it surfeits on;
So likewise did the ancestors of those Who evermore, when vacant is your church, Fatten by staying in consistory.
And if it do remain, say in what manner, After ye are again made visible, It can be that it injure not your sight."
Let him the mouth imagine of the horn That in the point beginneth of the axis Round about which the primal wheel revolves,--
Some who turn Florentines, and trade and discount, Would have gone back again to Simifonte There where their grandsires went about as beggars.
Nor by division was vermilion made."
Florence, within the ancient boundary From which she taketh still her tierce and nones, Abode in quiet, temperate and chaste.
Because that living Light, which from its fount Effulgent flows, so that it disunites not From Him nor from the Love in them intrined,
Because it is as much beyond our wont, As swifter than the motion of the Chiana Moveth the heaven that all the rest outspeeds.
Suffice it of my elders to hear this; But who they were, and whence they thither came, Silence is more considerate than speech.
Therefore the vision must perforce increase, Increase the ardour which from that is kindled, Increase the radiance which from this proceeds.
The insolent race, that like a dragon follows Whoever flees, and unto him that shows His teeth or purse is gentle as a lamb,
Whence, if thou notest this and what I said, A regal prudence is that peerless seeing In which the shaft of my intention strikes.
As at the blowing of the winds a coal Quickens to flame, so I beheld that light Become resplendent at my blandishments.
If Luni thou regard, and Urbisaglia, How they have passed away, and how are passing Chiusi and Sinigaglia after them,
A will benign, in which reveals itself Ever the love that righteously inspires, As in the iniquitous, cupidity,
Of him were made thereafter divers runnels, Whereby the garden catholic is watered, So that more living its plantations stand.
Nathan the seer, and metropolitan Chrysostom, and Anselmus, and Donatus Who deigned to lay his hand to the first art;
So from the lights that there to me appeared Upgathered through the cross a melody, Which rapt me, not distinguishing the hymn.
Because ascending it becomes more pure.
That which can die, and that which dieth not, Are nothing but the splendour of the idea Which by his love our Lord brings into being;
And if on 'rose' thou turnest thy clear eyes, Thou'lt see that it has reference alone To kings who're many, and the good are rare.
And as unto mine eyes it grew more fair, With voice more sweet and tender, but not in This modern dialect, it said to me:
And, in the lustre most divine of all The lesser ring, I heard a modest voice, Such as perhaps the Angel's was to Mary,
But he who takes his cross and follows Christ Again will pardon me what I omit, Seeing in that aurora lighten Christ.
His family, that had straight forward moved With feet upon his footprints, are turned round So that they set the point upon the heel.
Whence I, who mortal am, feel in myself This inequality; so give not thanks, Save in my heart, for this paternal welcome.
But still the orbit, which the highest part Of its circumference made, is derelict, So that the mould is where was once the crust.
Already had Caponsacco to the Market From Fesole descended, and already Giuda and Infangato were good burghers.
But that the sacred love, in which I watch With sight perpetual, and which makes me thirst With sweet desire, may better be fulfilled,
Thus the effulgence that surrounds us now Shall be o'erpowered in aspect by the flesh, Which still to day the earth doth cover up;
Nor yet shall people be too confident In judging, even as he is who doth count The corn in field or ever it be ripe.
From horn to horn, and 'twixt the top and base, Lights were in motion, brightly scintillating As they together met and passed each other;
Moronto was my brother, and Eliseo; From Val di Pado came to me my wife, And from that place thy surname was derived.
Perhaps my word appears somewhat too bold, Postponing the delight of those fair eyes, Into which gazing my desire has rest;
And therefore who I am thou askest not, And why I seem more joyous unto thee Than any other of this gladsome crowd.
Therefore it happens, that the selfsame tree After its kind bears worse and better fruit, And ye are born with characters diverse.
And as a lute and harp, accordant strung With many strings, a dulcet tinkling make To him by whom the notes are not distinguished,
But even as a coal that sends forth flame, And by its vivid whiteness overpowers it So that its own appearance it maintains,
For will increase whate'er bestows on us Of light gratuitous the Good Supreme, Light which enables us to look on Him;
Nor did it hide itself from me by choice, But by necessity; for its conception Above the mark of mortals set itself.
Truly thou art a cloak that quickly shortens, So that unless we piece thee day by day Time goeth round about thee with his shears!
So that thine own opinion I commend, That human nature never yet has been, Nor will be, what it was in those two persons.
For one may rise, and fall the other may."
And make the people here, through covenant God set with Noah, presageful of the world That shall no more be covered with a flood,
So sudden and alert appeared to me Both one and the other choir to say Amen, That well they showed desire for their dead bodies;
With all my heart, and in that dialect Which is the same in all, such holocaust To God I made as the new grace beseemed;
He in short time became so great a teacher, That he began to go about the vineyard, Which fadeth soon, if faithless be the dresser;
No golden chain she had, nor coronal, Nor ladies shod with sandal shoon, nor girdle That caught the eye more than the person did.
Is situate the fortunate Calahorra, Under protection of the mighty shield In which the Lion subject is and sovereign.
Answer: "As long as the festivity Of Paradise shall be, so long our love Shall radiate round about us such a vesture.
There by that execrable race was I Released from bonds of the fallacious world, The love of which defileth many souls,
Let him the Wain imagine unto which Our vault of heaven sufficeth night and day, So that in turning of its pole it fails not;
Across the sunbeam move, wherewith is listed Sometimes the shade, which for their own defence People with cunning and with art contrive.
Can me excuse, if I myself accuse To excuse myself, and see that I speak truly: For here the holy joy is not disclosed,
When, glorious and sanctified, our flesh Is reassumed, then shall our persons be More pleasing by their being all complete;
Song that as greatly doth transcend our Muses, Our Sirens, in those dulcet clarions, As primal splendour that which is reflected.
'tis well that without end he should lament, Who for the love of thing that doth not last Eternally despoils him of that love!
He asked for, but against the errant world Permission to do battle for the seed, Of which these four and twenty plants surround thee.
And him of Nerli saw, and him of Vecchio, Contented with their simple suits of buff And with the spindle and the flax their dames.
The singing and the dance fulfilled their measure, And unto us those holy lights gave need, Growing in happiness from care to care.
Three several times was chanted by each one Among those spirits, with such melody That for all merit it were just reward;
With all these families beheld so just And glorious her people, that the lily Never upon the spear was placed reversed,
O how much better 'twere to have as neighbours The folk of whom I speak, and at Galluzzo And at Trespiano have your boundary,
And with me they have moved this company."
When the Emperor who reigneth evermore Provided for the host that was in peril, Through grace alone and not that it was worthy;
From centre unto rim, from rim to centre, In a round vase the water moves itself, As from without 'tis struck or from within.
For in her eyes was burning such a smile That with mine own methought I touched the bottom Both of my grace and of my Paradise!
Well was I ware it was of lofty laud, Because there came to me, "Arise and conquer!" As unto him who hears and comprehends not.
Dominic was he called; and him I speak of Even as of the husbandman whom Christ Elected to his garden to assist him.
And it continued: "Hunger long and grateful, Drawn from the reading of the mighty volume Wherein is never changed the white nor dark,
Near to the gate that is at present laden With a new felony of so much weight That soon it shall be jetsam from the bark,
As through the pure and tranquil evening air There shoots from time to time a sudden fire, Moving the eyes that steadfast were before,
Not yet the daughter at her birth struck fear Into the father, for the time and dower Did not o'errun this side or that the measure.
To celebrate so great a paladin Have moved me the impassioned courtesy And the discreet discourses of Friar Thomas,
Then with the doctrine and the will together, With office apostolical he moved, Like torrent which some lofty vein out presses;
The soldiery of Christ, which it had cost So dear to arm again, behind the standard Moved slow and doubtful and in numbers few,
Whence Beatrice, who stood somewhat apart, Smiling, appeared like unto her who coughed At the first failing writ of Guenever.
But among mortals will and argument, For reason that to you is manifest, Diversely feathered in their pinions are.
Let not Dame Bertha nor Ser Martin think, Seeing one steal, another offering make, To see them in the arbitrament divine;
Out of the heart of one of the new lights There came a voice, that needle to the star Made me appear in turning thitherward.
Thus that effulgence; whence I gave it heed; Then round unto my Lady turned my sight, And on this side and that was stupefied;
Not to dispense or two or three for six, Not any fortune of first vacancy, 'Non decimas quae sunt pauperum Dei,'
The One and Two and Three who ever liveth, And reigneth ever in Three and Two and One, Not circumscribed and all things circumscribing,
If in perfection tempered were the wax, And were the heaven in its supremest virtue, The brilliance of the seal would all appear;
But, that may well appear what now appears not, Think who he was, and what occasion moved him To make request, when it was told him, 'Ask.'
Then broke the silence of those saints concordant The light in which the admirable life Of God's own mendicant was told to me,
So, at that orison devout and prompt, The holy circles a new joy displayed In their revolving and their wondrous song.
Then said to me: "That one from whom is named Thy race, and who a hundred years and more Has circled round the mount on the first cornice,
Already rising was, but from low people; So that it pleased not Ubertin Donato That his wife's father should make him their kin.
Then to uplift themselves mine eyes resumed The power, and I beheld myself translated To higher salvation with my Lady only.
"This man has need (and does not tell you so, Nor with the voice, nor even in his thought) Of going to the root of one truth more.
Each one that bears the beautiful escutcheon Of the great baron whose renown and name The festival of Thomas keepeth fresh,
As soon as the espousals were complete Between him and the Faith at holy font, Where they with mutual safety dowered each other,
Thus constellated in the depths of Mars, Those rays described the venerable sign That quadrants joining in a circle make.
'Twill not be from Casal nor Acquasparta, From whence come such unto the written word That one avoids it, and the other narrows.
Because it happens that full often bends Current opinion in the false direction, And then the feelings bind the intellect.
And soon aware they will be of the harvest Of this bad husbandry, when shall the tares Complain the granary is taken from them.
Mighty already was the Column Vair, Sacchetti, Giuochi, Fifant, and Barucci, And Galli, and they who for the bushel blush.
Silent and wakeful many a time was he Discovered by his nurse upon the ground, As if he would have said, 'For this I came.'
And lo! all round about of equal brightness Arose a lustre over what was there, Like an horizon that is clearing up.
I saw the Ughi, saw the Catellini, Filippi, Greci, Ormanni, and Alberichi, Even in their fall illustrious citizens;
And as the turning of the lunar heaven Covers and bares the shores without a pause, In the like manner fortune does with Florence.
Its brightness is proportioned to the ardour, The ardour to the vision; and the vision Equals what grace it has above its worth.
I followed afterward the Emperor Conrad, And he begirt me of his chivalry, So much I pleased him with my noble deeds.
Envoy and servant sooth he seemed of Christ, For the first love made manifest in him Was the first counsel that was given by Christ.
Now let thy voice secure and frank and glad Proclaim the wishes, the desire proclaim, To which my answer is decreed already."
'tis right, where one is, to bring in the other, That, as they were united in their warfare, Together likewise may their glory shine.
Because of the resemblance that was born Of his discourse and that of Beatrice, Whom, after him, it pleased thus to begin:
In such wise of those sempiternal roses The garlands twain encompassed us about, And thus the outer to the inner answered.
After the dance, and other grand rejoicings, Both of the singing, and the flaming forth Effulgence with effulgence blithe and tender,
And, as was said, he to his Bride brought succour With champions twain, at whose deed, at whose word The straggling people were together drawn.
With 'You,' which Rome was first to tolerate, (Wherein her family less perseveres,) Yet once again my words beginning made;
Thou hast appeased, my son, within this light In which I speak to thee, by grace of her Who to this lofty flight with plumage clothed thee.
Not far off from the beating of the waves, Behind which in his long career the sun Sometimes conceals himself from every man,
And these contingencies I hold to be Things generated, which the heaven produces By its own motion, with seed and without.
Together, at once, with one accord had stopped, (Even as the eyes, that, as volition moves them, Must needs together shut and lift themselves,)
If then the fervent Love, the Vision clear, Of primal Virtue do dispose and seal, Perfection absolute is there acquired.
Here are Illuminato and Agostino, Who of the first barefooted beggars were That with the cord the friends of God became.
O thou his father, Felix verily! O thou his mother, verily Joanna, If this, interpreted, means as is said!
All those who at that time were there between Mars and the Baptist, fit for bearing arms, Were a fifth part of those who now are living;
The first thing that was understood by me Was "Benedight be Thou, O Trine and One, Who hast unto my seed so courteous been!"
How unto just entreaties shall be deaf Those substances, which, to give me desire Of praying them, with one accord grew silent?
But it behoved the mutilated stone Which guards the bridge, that Florence should provide A victim in her latest hour of peace.
Tell me about the sheepfold of Saint john, How large it was, and who the people were Within it worthy of the highest seats."
And when the bow of burning sympathy Was so far slackened, that its speech descended Towards the mark of our intelligence,
And hence at what I said above dost wonder, When I narrated that no second had The good which in the fifth light is enclosed.
Did Mary give me, with loud cries invoked, And in your ancient Baptistery at once Christian and Cacciaguida I became.
For in the Sun, which lighted you and burned With heat and radiance, they so equal are, That all similitudes are insufficient.
For I have seen all winter long the thorn First show itself intractable and fierce, And after bear the rose upon its top;
And in among the shoots heretical His impetus with greater fury smote, Wherever the resistance was the greatest.
Already were Gualterotti and Importuni; And still more quiet would the Borgo be If with new neighbours it remained unfed.
And when it was created was his mind Replete with such a living energy, That in his mother her it made prophetic.
My ancestors and I our birthplace had Where first is found the last ward of the city By him who runneth in your annual game.
But Beatrice so beautiful and smiling Appeared to me, that with the other sights That followed not my memory I must leave her.
With this distinction take thou what I said, And thus it can consist with thy belief Of the first father and of our Delight.
And that he might be construed as he was, A spirit from this place went forth to name him With His possessive whose he wholly was.
Within that region where the sweet west wind Rises to open the new leaves, wherewith Europe is seen to clothe herself afresh,
And it began: "The love that makes me fair Draws me to speak about the other leader, By whom so well is spoken here of mine.
My career was ended, but not completed.
Then I became conscious that I had been dreaming; I shuddered at all the significant suggestions and similarities, and stood anxiously by the boundless deep of this inward truth.
Since the last letter from your sister-it is three days now-I have undergone the sufferings of an entire life, from the bright sunlight of glowing youth to the pale moonlight of sagacious old age.
And as a delicate spirit often grows melancholy in the very lap of happiness over its own joy, and at the very acme of its existence becomes conscious of the futility of it all, so did I regard my suffering with mysterious pleasure.
It seemed to me that all was right so, and that your unavoidable death was nothing more than a gentle awakening after a light sleep.
Finally I became conscious that it was now nearly over.
Then of a sudden the different memories all became confused; with unbelievable rapidity the outlines changed, reassumed their first form, and transformed themselves again and again, until the wild vision vanished.
I hated everything earthly and was glad to see it all punished and destroyed.
I should have despaired, had I not perceived and idolized both in you, gracious Madonna, and you and your gentle godliness in myself.
Serious and yet charming, quite you and yet no longer you, the divine form irradiated by a wonderful light!
And for that reason I suspect-if I am not mistaken, I have already imparted my suspicion to you-that the next life will be larger, and in the good as well as in the bad, stronger, wilder, bolder and more tremendous.
Everything was already past.
For a long time you had been wrapt in the bosom of the cold earth; flowers had started to grow on the beloved grave, and my tears had already begun to flow more gently. Mute and alone I stood, and saw nothing but the features I had loved and the sweet glances of the expressive eyes.
I felt so alone and so strangely.
Every little detail she wrote about your sickness, taken with what I had already gleaned from the doctor and had observed myself, confirmed my suspicion that it was far more dangerous than you thought; indeed no longer dangerous, but decided, past hope.
And then I now know that death can also be felt as beautiful and sweet.
For me and for this book, however, for my love of it and for its inner development, there is no better adaptation of means to ends than this, namely, that right at the start I begin by abolishing what we call orderly arrangement, keep myself entirely aloof from it, frankly claiming and asserting the right to a charming confusion.
And so, alas, it is; and I should indeed feel very disconsolate about it if I could not cherish the hope that at least a part of it may soon be realized.
CONFESSIONS OF AN AWKWARD MAN
The selection is not difficult.
I was going to expound to you, step by step, in accordance with natural laws, the misunderstandings that attack the hidden centre of the loveliest existence, and to confess to you the manifold effects of my awkwardness.
And even as the wide land undulates in hills and dales, so the calm, broad, silvery river winds along in great bends and sweeps, until it and the lover's fantasy, cradled upon it like the swan, pass away into the distance and lose themselves in the immeasurable.
This is all the more necessary, inasmuch as the material which our life and love offers to my spirit and to my pen is so incessantly progressive and so inflexibly systematic.
I breathed the spring and I saw clearly all about me everlasting youth.
PROLOGUE
Well, I was standing by the window and looking out into the open; the morning certainly deserves to be called beautiful, the air is still and quite warm, and the verdure here before me is fresh.
The great Cervantes too, an old man in agony, but still genial and full of delicate wit, drapes the motley spectacle of his lifelike writings with the costly tapestry of a preface, which in itself is a beautiful and romantic painting.
All the rest is readily explained by psychology.
JULIUS TO LUCINDA
I not only enjoyed, but I felt and enjoyed the enjoyment.
Nothing concerns him except to keep clean the sheen of his white pinions.
And in my mind's eye I saw, too, in many forms, my one and only Beloved, now as a little girl, now as a young lady in the full bloom and energy of love and womanhood, and now as a dignified mother with her demure babe in her arms.
A fresh, warm breath of life and love fanned me, rustling and stirring in all the branches of the verdant grove.
I was just on the point of unfolding to you in clear and precise periods the exact and straightforward history of our frivolities and of my dulness.
I gazed and enjoyed it all, the rich green, the white blossoms and the golden fruit.
And yet with calm presence of mind I watched for the slightest sign of joy in you, so that not one should escape me to impair the harmony.
But what shall my spirit bestow upon its offspring, which, like its parent, is as poor in poesy as it is rich in love?
Just one word, a parting trope: It is not alone the royal eagle who may despise the croaking of the raven; the swan, too, is proud and takes no note of it.
The clever Boccaccio talks with flattering courtesy to all women, both at the beginning and at the end of his opulent book.
And then again come moments of sudden and universal clarity, when several such spirits of the inner world completely fuse together into a wonderful wedlock, and many a forgotten bit of our ego shines forth in a new light and even illuminates the darkness of the future with its bright lustre.
One thing crowds out another, and that which just now was near and present soon sinks back into obscurity.
On the other side, perhaps, longing will be more completely realized. I often wonder over it; every thought, and whatever else is fashioned within us, seems to be complete in itself, as single and indivisible as a person.
For it was in friendship especially that I sought for what I wanted, and for what I never hoped to find in any woman.
And for him there come, too, moments of the profoundest and fullest consciousness, when all lives fall together and mingle and separate in a different way.
The holiest and most evanescent of those delicate traits and utterances of the soul, which to one who does not know the highest seem like bliss itself, are merely the common atmosphere of our spiritual breath and life.
That is why you are so serious and so joyous, why you regard everything in such a large and indifferent way; that is why you love me, all of me, and will surrender no part of me to the state, to posterity, or to manly pleasures.
In you alone I first saw true pride and true feminine humility.
Suppose words or a human being to create a misunderstanding between us!
I am all yours; we are closest to each other and we understand each other.
We have to cool and mitigate the consuming fire with jests, and thus for us the most witty of the forms and situations of joy is also the most beautiful.
It looks at me joyously out of its deep eyes and opens its arms to embrace my spirit.
I bethink me how at our last embrace, you vehemently resisting, I burst into simultaneous tears and laughter.
I wanted first to demonstrate to you that there exists in the original and essential nature of man a certain awkward enthusiasm which likes to utter boldly that which is delicate and holy, and sometimes falls headlong over its own honest zeal and speaks a word that is divine to the point of coarseness.
Oh, I should have thought it all a fairy tale that there could be such joy, such love as I now feel, and such a woman, who could be my most tender Beloved, my best companion, and at the same time a perfect friend.
One among all is at once the wittiest and the loveliest: when we exchange roles and with childish delight try to see who can best imitate the other; whether you succeed best with the tender vehemence of a man, or I with the yielding devotion of a woman.
I remember everything, even the griefs, and all my thoughts that have been and are to be bestir themselves and arise before me.
For you all feeling is infinite and eternal; you recognize no separations, your being is an indivisible unity.
You accompany me through all the stages of manhood, from the utmost wantonness to the most refined spirituality.
The extremes of unbridled gayety and of quiet presentiment live together within me.
For your spirit, too, stands distinct and perfect before me, not as an apparition which appears and fades away again, but as one of the forms that endure forever.
Meantime I will by no means make common cause with them, but will rather excuse and defend my liberty and audacity by means of the example of the little innocent Wilhelmina, since she too is a lady whom I love most tenderly.
That was my dithyrambic fantasy on the loveliest situation in the loveliest of worlds.
Nothing can part us; and certainly any separation would only draw me more powerfully to you.
The words are weak and vague.
Only here I see myself in harmonious completeness.
Gladly and lovingly would you descend into the burning abyss, even as the women of India do, impelled by a mad law, the cruel, constraining purpose of which desecrates and destroys the most delicate sanctities of the will.
The poignant grief would be transient and quickly resolve itself into complete harmony.
The time is coming when we two shall behold in one spirit that we are blossoms of one plant, or petals of one flower.
How could separation separate us, when presence itself is to us, as it were, too present?
The most extreme suffering, if it is only surrounded, without separating us, would seem to me nothing but a charming antithesis to the sublime frivolity of our marriage.
But then my longing grew again irresistible, until on its wings I sank back into your arms.
A great future beckons me on into the immeasurable; each idea develops a countless progeny.
How faithfully and how simply you have sketched it, the old and daring idea of my dearest and most intimate purpose!
And it must.
But to the girl the matrimony which is or is not to be her destiny contains within itself the only success or failure which she anticipates.
You were always a good girl."
Luckily it seems that nothing has been said on either side."
Like other girls she had been taught to presume that it was her destiny to be married, and like other girls she had thought much about her destiny.
"Yes, papa." He was sitting on a sofa and shrank back a little from her as she made this free avowal.
"Emily, my dear, come here." Then she came and sat on a footstool at his feet, and looked up into his face.
I am sure you believe me when I promise not to see him without your permission."
To those who were allowed to love her no woman was more lovable.
"I do believe you.
"Or his mother,--or his family?
I would not wish the reader to be prejudiced against Miss Wharton by the not unnatural feeling which may perhaps be felt in regard to the aunt.
And mr Wharton had felt himself bound to abstain from allusion to such matters from an assured feeling that he could not in that direction plant an enduring objection.
I have been very much astonished to day by mr Lopez,--a man of whom I have seen very little and know less.
"I do not want to know him better."
Nor he to me,--except in such words as one understands even though they say nothing."
"But should you have accepted him?"
I should care very much.
No doubt the contact was dangerous.
How can I give you to a man I know nothing about,--an adventurer?
Then she paused a moment; but her niece said nothing, and she continued, "Yes,--and your father has been blaming me,--as if I had done anything!
I would not wish that there should be opportunity for such asking.
There is Arthur Fletcher."
"My dear Emily," said mr Wharton, striving to wax into anger that he might be firm against her, "I don't think that it becomes you to ask your father such a question as that.
"But is he?
"No doubt your papa will have it out with you just now; so you had better make up your mind what you will say to him.
"I will.
But as we do not light up our houses with our brightest lamps for all comers, so neither did she emit from her eyes their brightest sparks till special occasion for such shining had arisen.
In this way Lopez had carried his point with mr Wharton. He had convinced mrs Roby that among all the girl's attractions the greatest attraction for him was the fact that she was mrs Roby's niece.
And he began the process of thinking about it immediately,--before the door was closed behind her.
"If you tell me that I am not to see him, I shall not see him.
He is Everett's friend.
It may be that some slightest soil had already marred the pure white of the girl's natural character.
You ought to believe that it is the chief object of my life to do the best I can for my children."
Yes; it is about mr Lopez.
"Haven't I given reasons?
I suppose every girl would like to do that."
"Not in that way, certainly."
As to mr Fletcher, you don't care a bit about him."
I will do as you bid me." Then he put out his hand and caressed her, stroking down her hair.
Suppose it should turn out afterwards that he was-disreputable!"
"Do you know what I am going to speak to you about, my darling?"
"Oh no, papa."
But the girl can look forward to little else than the chance of having a good man for her husband;--a good man, or if her tastes lie in that direction, a rich man.
"You claim a right to my obedience, and I acknowledge it.
"Emily, it must not be."
"Why not, papa?
"One is bound to be very careful.
He remained longer than usual with his bottle of port wine in the dining room; and when he went upstairs, he sat himself down and fell asleep, almost without a sign.
It will be a crushing blow." He looked at her, and saw that there was a fixed purpose in her countenance of which he had never before seen similar signs.
How is one to know whether a man be bad or good when one knows nothing about him?" At this point the father got up and walked about the room.
And why should not a foreigner be as good as an Englishman?
If this is to be as you say, it will make me very, very wretched.
Injury had perhaps already been done.
But I should have wished to accept him.
You have made him no promise?"
He had only to say resolutely and unchangeably that the thing shouldn't be, and it wouldn't be.
"You know, papa, that I trust you," she said.
What would they say in Herefordshire?"
"But, papa-; is there to be no reason?"
An aunt in his close neighbourhood was so great a comfort to him,--so ready and so natural an assistance to him in his difficulties!
But a feeling began to grow upon him already that his daughter had a mode of pleading with him which he would not ultimately be able to resist.
If you really like the man, I don't see why you shouldn't say so, and stick to it.
"Is he a bad man, papa?"
You'll think about it, papa,--will you not, before you quite decide?" She leaned against him as she spoke, and he kissed her. "Good night, now, papa.
"I don't know that I ever did."
"Who knows?
If you say it shall not be so, it shall not.
Of course I will."
I don't know why you shouldn't have him.
Emily Wharton was a tall, fair girl, with grey eyes, rather exceeding the average proportions as well as height of women.
"Well;--to speak fairly, I thought you had; and I have nothing to say against your choice.
"I should, my dear.
"Why of course, papa?"
"And you ought to feel that, as I have had a long experience in the world, my judgment about a young man might be trusted."
Don't you think that is suspicious?"
Would you have wished me to tell him that he might come?"
As soon as mrs Roby had gathered up her knitting, and declared, as she always did on such occasions, that she could go round the corner without having any one to look after her, mr Wharton began.
"In that case I could have judged for myself.
And he is clever.
You will think about it?"
When going to mr Wharton at his chambers he had not intended to cheat the lawyer into any erroneous idea about his family, but he had resolved that he would so discuss the questions of his own condition, which would probably be raised, as to leave upon the old man's mind an unfounded conviction that in regard to money and income he had no reason to fear question.
"He has a business, and he lives with gentlemen.
That was a statement which Miss Wharton was not prepared to admit. She had already professed herself willing to submit to her father's judgment, and did not now by any means contemplate rebellion against parental authority.
He is what we call an adventurer.
Emily Wharton had doubtless thought about these things, and she sincerely believed that she had found the good man in Ferdinand Lopez.
"It isn't only that; no one knows anything about him, or where to inquire even."
Her features were regular and handsome, and her form was perfect; but it was by her manner and her voice that she conquered, rather than by her beauty,--by those gifts and by a clearness of intellect joined with that feminine sweetness which has its most frequent foundation in self denial.
Of course you'll have money, but then I suppose he makes a large income himself.
As young men go, I think mr Lopez is as good as the best of them.
"You may say that of any man, papa."
"Yes, papa, I know that."
"But when a man has connexions, a father and mother, or uncles and aunts, people that everybody knows about, then there is some guarantee of security.
"Yes, papa; I think I do.
It might probably be the case that the whole condition of her future life would depend on the way in which she might now "have it out" with her father.
Those who knew her well, and had become attached to her, were apt to endow her with all virtues, and to give her credit for a loveliness which strangers did not find on her face.
But if so, the stain was as yet too impalpable to be visible to ordinary eyes.
"Because he is a stranger and a foreigner.
She had married a vulgar man; and, though she had not become like the man, she had become vulgar.
"I wish he had never seen you."
If he did not mean you to choose for yourself, why didn't he keep a closer look out?"
I cannot tell.
"And I have promised you that I will not disobey you.
She was not an eligible companion for mr Wharton's daughter,--a matter as to which the father had not given himself proper opportunities of learning the facts.
If there has been intimacy between you, such information should have come naturally,--as a thing of course.
I will not have my daughter encourage an adventurer,--a man of whom nobody knows anything.
"You are a good girl.
"But I think that you ought to hear me." Then he stood still with his hands in his trowsers pockets looking at her.
"But I think you ought to tell me why it must not be,--as I do love him."
"Nor spoken to him-of your regard for him?"
"Never;--not a word.
He had made Emily herself believe that the one strong passion of his life was his love for her, and this he had done without ever having asked for her love.
But Emily Wharton was not in the least like her aunt, nor had mrs Wharton been at all like mrs Roby.
He may be ever so bad.
He did not want to hear a word, but he felt that he would be a tyrant if he refused.
I have never said so before to any one.
The man, certainly, was one strangely endowed with the power of creating a belief.
"But if I do that for you, papa, I think that you ought to be very sure, on my account, that I haven't to bear such unhappiness for nothing.
"Your aunt has told you, I suppose.
On his own behalf it must be acknowledged that he did love the girl, as well perhaps as he was capable of loving any one;--but he had found out many particulars as to mr Wharton's money before he had allowed himself to love her.
"I think I should have consulted you before I did that.
But what was there to think about? Nothing that she had said altered in the least his idea about the man.
A young man generally regards it as his destiny either to succeed or to fail in the world, and he thinks about that. To him marriage, when it comes, is an accident to which he has hardly as yet given a thought.
It is about-mr
He was as convinced as ever that unless there was much to conceal there would not be so much concealment.
That is reason sufficient."
"I think you should inquire, papa, and be quite certain before you pronounce such a sentence against me.
But I shall be very unhappy.
"He is a foreigner."
"I will ask him, papa, if you wish."
I would not say so to you now, if he had not-spoken to you as he has done."
Marriage, my dear, is a most serious thing."
One is bound to think of one's family.
"I am sure it is."
"Lopez has been to your father," said mrs Roby, in a voice not specially encouraging for such an occasion.
He came to me to day and asked for my permission-to address you." She sat perfectly quiet, still looking at him, but she did not say a word.
"That is nonsense, Emily.
There was innate in her an appreciation of her own position as a woman, and with it a principle of self denial as a human being, which it was beyond the power of any mrs Roby to destroy or even to defile by small stains.
Did you ever hear this man speak of his father?"
"Yes;--well; I don't know whether I said exactly that, but I told him that the whole thing must come to an end.
It is right that you should know the truth.
He is well educated;--oh, so much better than most men that one meets.
The young man may become Lord Chancellor, or at any rate earn his bread comfortably as a county court judge.
mrs Roby was pleased with little intrigues, was addicted to the amusement of fostering love affairs, was fond of being thought to be useful in such matters, and was not averse to having presents given to her.
"Did you tell him so?"
Of course I believe you."
But she did feel that on a matter so vital to her she had a right to plead her cause before judgment should be given, and she was not slow to assure herself, even as this interview went on, that her love for the man was strong enough to entitle her to assure her father that her happiness depended on his reversal of the sentence already pronounced.
If you tell me that I am never to see mr Lopez again, I will not see him."
He had the power, he knew, of putting an end to the thing altogether.
"Is not that prejudice, papa?"
"I don't know why they should say anything, but if they did I shouldn't much care."
There had, however, been a few words spoken on the subject between mrs Roby and her niece which had served to prepare Emily for what was coming.
"He has no relatives, no family, no belongings.
Lopez."
And his heart was sad within him when he thought that he had vexed her,--loving her as he did with all his heart, but with a heart that was never demonstrative.
"It is looked upon as being very great promotion.
"But what does it matter?
Individuals might be content, but the party would be dissatisfied.
"Poor Barrington!
Neither of these excellent public servants had told a lie in this. Some such conversations as those reported had passed;--but a man doesn't lie when he exaggerates an emphasis, or even when he gives by a tone a meaning to a man's words exactly opposite to that which another tone would convey.
Finn is to go to Ireland."
Or, if he does lie in doing so, he does not know that he lies.
They were habitually indifferent to self exaltation, and allowed themselves to be thrust into this or that unfitting role, professing that the Queen's Government and the good of the country were their only considerations.
But when the actual adjustment of things was in hand, the Duke, having but little power of assuming a soft countenance and using soft words while his heart was bitter, felt on more than one occasion inclined to withdraw his thanks.
He must put up with that of course.
"Nothing on earth,--only that she did in truth begin her career in the time of George the Third.
But when the newspapers told him that he was the only man for the occasion, how could he be justified in crediting himself in preference to them?
"It will never do," said mr Rattler to mr Roby.
"Well; yes.
She did not at first dare to expound to him those grand ideas which she had conceived in regard to magnificence and hospitality.
He had an idea that it should be one of your men."
"But what am I to do?
In this way the domestic peace of the Prime Minister was readjusted, and that sympathy and co-operation for which he had first asked was accorded to him.
"He's an Irishman himself."
There was no doubt, in the minds of all these editors and contributors, the teaching of a tradition that coalitions of this kind have been generally feeble, sometimes disastrous, and on occasions even disgraceful.
"So I am told.
Sir Gregory did, no doubt, think very much about it; for legal offices have a signification differing much from that which attaches itself to places simply political.
"It's a pity she should not remember hers in the way she dresses," said the Duchess.
But he said just the same!--that he considered I was bound to join him.
"I have done as you asked about a friend of yours," he said.
"mr
They do murder people, you know, sometimes."
"Go to Ireland!--How do you mean?"
It used not to be so.
But she set herself to work after her own fashion, making to him suggestions as to dinners and evening receptions, to which he objected only on the score of time.
"That's not so very long ago, Cora."
The House doesn't care about Monk."
Monk wouldn't have done.
I doubt, however, whether it is more dishonest, and whether struggles were not made quite as disgraceful to the strugglers as anything that is done now.
But then again men, who have by the work of their lives grown into a certain position in the country, and have unconsciously but not therefore less actually made themselves indispensable either to this side in politics or to that, cannot free themselves altogether from the responsibility of managing them when a period comes such as that now reached.
mr Macpherson and mr Roby, with a host of others who had belonged to mr Daubeny, were prepared, as they declared from the first, to lend their assistance to the Duke. They had consulted mr Daubeny on the subject, and mr Daubeny told them that their duty lay in that direction.
I hope they won't murder him, or anything of that kind.
It was probably this encouragement which had enabled the new Premier to go on with an undertaking which was personally distasteful to him, and for which from day to day he believed himself to be less and less fit.
mr Rattler had gone back to his old office at the Treasury and mr Roby had been forced to content himself with the Secretaryship at the Admiralty.
"You carry a very unnecessary burden then," she said.
When it was first known that the Duke of Omnium had consented to make the attempt, they had both on one side and the other been loud in his praise, going so far as to say that he was the only man in England who could do the work.
Of course men were always anxious for office as they are now."
He does not like the idea of crossing the Channel so often.
"I'm afraid," said he, attempting to smile, "that it won't come within the compass of my office to effect or even to propose any radical change in her Grace's apparel. But don't you think that you and I can afford to ignore all that?"
"You are what you have made yourself, and I have always rejoiced that you are as you are, fresh, untrammelled, without many prejudices which afflict other ladies, and free from bonds by which they are cramped and confined.
And Sir Gregory Grogram said not a word, whatever he may have thought, when he was told that mr Daubeny's Lord Chancellor, Lord Ramsden, was to keep the seals.
At the first blush of the matter the arrangement took the form of a gracious tender from themselves to a statesman called upon to act in very difficult circumstances,--and they were thanked accordingly by the Duke, with something of real cordial gratitude.
We've heard of that before to day, I think."
That there would soon come causes of hot blood,--the English Church, the county suffrage, the income tax, and further education questions,--all men knew who knew anything.
"But I don't think any man ever ventured to ask mr Mildmay."
He certainly couldn't go as Lord Lieutenant."
"Not because you did not agree with me,--but because you did not think me fit to be trusted with any judgment of my own.
Lord Thrift made way for Sir Orlando Drought at the Admiralty, because it was felt on all sides that Sir Orlando could not join the new composite party without high place.
The chances are that when I see her Grace I shall tell her what I think about her."
I don't know why I'm always to be looked upon as different from other women,--as though I were half a savage."
He comes backwards and forwards every week,--doesn't he?"
"I am assured that they are inseparable since the work was begun. They always had a leaning to each other, and now I hear they pass their time between the steps of the Carlton and Reform Clubs."
"I told the Duke from the beginning," said Rattler, "that I didn't think that I could be of any service to him.
"I always thought it should be Wilson, and so I told the Duke.
Many of the cares of office the Prime Minister did succeed in shuffling off altogether on to the shoulders of his elder friend. He would not concern himself with the appointment of ladies, about whom he said he knew nothing, and as to whose fitness and claims he professed himself to be as ignorant as the office messenger.
"To be told within the same half hour by two men that I had made promises to each of them inconsistent with each other!"
I'm sure she's nearer sixty than fifty."
"I have asked him to undertake the office," said the Duke solemnly, "because I am told that he is fit for it.
But after a day or two,--on one of which mr Daubeny had been seen sitting just below the gangway,--that gentleman returned to the place usually held by the Prime Minister's rival, saying with a smile that it might be for the convenience of the House that the seat should be utilised.
"Not quite that, I believe."
He perceived, however, in spite of the multiplicity of his official work, that his refusal sat heavily on his wife's breast, and that, though she spoke no further word, she brooded over her injury.
She said nothing of any extraordinary expenditure of money.
Of course such a turn of character is subject to certain dangers of its own."
And the same grace was shown in regard to Lord Drummond, who remained at the Colonies, keeping the office to which he had been lately transferred under mr Daubeny.
I wonder whether she'll like going.
The real struggle, however, lay in the appropriate distribution of the Rattlers and the Robys, the Fitzgibbons and the Macphersons among the subordinate offices of State.
"Time had done much for him in consolidating his authority, and perhaps the present world is less reticent in its eagerness than it was in his younger days.
I quite sympathise with him.
You can quite understand how necessary she is to me. But she is in truth the only woman in London to whom I can say what I think.
He was astounded not so much by the pretensions as by the unblushing assertion of these pretensions in reference to places which he had been innocent enough to think were always bestowed at any rate without direct application.
She may be an antiquated Eve for me."
Who should lead the House?
"The fact is," said Roby, "that we've trusted to two men so long that we don't know how to suppose any one else big enough to fill their places.
"That's just the reason why they should.
"They're both good, men in their way, you know."
But I did have some pleasure in proposing it to him because I thought that it would please you."
Not in the Cabinet?"
But he could tell at once from the altered tone of her voice, and from the light of her eye as he glanced into her face, that her anger about "The Robes" was appeased.
It may be a question whether on the whole the Duchess did not work harder than he did.
"There ought to be something like a fair division.
He had expressly asked her for her sympathy in the business he had on hand,--thereby going much beyond his usual coldness of manner.
He had gone to her, up to her own room, before he dressed for dinner, having devoted much more time than as Prime Minister he ought to have done to a resolution that he would make things straight with her, and to the best way of doing it.
This was marvellous to him,--that his wife, who as Lady Glencora Palliser had been so conspicuous for a wild disregard of social rules as to be looked upon by many as an enemy of her own class, should be so depressed by not being allowed to be the Queen's head servant as to descend to personal invective!
"I hope, Cora, you are not still disappointed because I did not agree with you when you spoke about the place for yourself."
If she began her career in the time of George the Fourth, what is it to you?"
I asked Gresham, and when Gresham said so too, of course I had no help for it."
Then she had made her request, had been refused, and was now moody.
"That is promotion, and I am glad!
The old statesman laughed.
"I can certainly.
"I think he's right there," said Roby.
The town horse, used to gaudy trappings, no doubt despises the work of his country brother; but yet, now and again, there comes upon him a sudden desire to plough.
"You don't mean as Chief Secretary?"
"Silverbridge is older now than I was then, and I think that makes it a very long time ago." Lord Silverbridge was the Duke's eldest son.
mr Gresham at this time had, with declared purpose, asked and obtained the Speaker's leave of absence and was abroad.
"I do like her.
"Yes, I do.
Of course, I would support him, but I had been too thoroughly a party man for a new movement of this kind.
But at last even the Rattlers and Robys were fixed, if not satisfied, and a complete list of the ministry appeared in all the newspapers. Though the thing had been long a doing, still it had come suddenly,--so that at the first proposition to form a coalition ministry, the newspapers had hardly known whether to assist or to oppose the scheme.
But for the moment, for the month even, perhaps for the Session, there was to be peace, with full latitude for the performance of routine duties. There was so to say no opposition, and at first it seemed that one special bench in the House of Commons would remain unoccupied.
When she was unhappy he was miserable, though he would hardly know the cause of his misery.
The work in Parliament began under the new auspices with great tranquillity.
"mr Rattler and mr Roby."
By the time that the Easter holidays were over,--holidays which had been used so conveniently for the making of a new government,--the work of getting a team together had been accomplished by the united energy of the two dukes and other friends.
But mr Erle declined.
They'll be able to spend money, which they always like, over there.
Indeed I am told that he is considered to be the luckiest man in all the scramble."
And when at the same moment, together with the change, he secures power, patronage, and pay, how shall the public voice absolve him?
And so Phineas is to be Secretary for Ireland!
One must be Patronage Secretary, no doubt."
Her ridicule and raillery he could bear, though they stung him; but her sorrow, if ever she were sorrowful, or her sullenness, if ever she were sullen, upset him altogether.
"No;--not in the Cabinet.
But, as the old Duke had said, they were close friends, and prepared to fight together any battle which might keep them in their present position.
It seems that mr Erle is after all the one man in Parliament modest enough not to consider himself to be fit for any place that can be offered to him."
The matter affected our Duke,--only in so far that he could not get out of his mind that strange application from his own wife.
But do not let us quarrel about an old woman."
"Well; yes.
"There is no doubt about the dangers.
I know you don't like her."
"What friend?"
When a man, perhaps through a long political life, has bound himself to a certain code of opinions, how can he change that code at a moment?
"I don't mean to say anything against Drought, who has always been a very useful man to your party;--but he lacks something of the position."
"Who were the two men?"
For myself, I'd have sooner stayed out as an independent member, but Daubeny said that he thought I was bound to make myself useful."
You do not know how constantly I carry you about with me."
"But they said that Barrington Erle was going to Ireland."
"You must eat your dinner somewhere," she said, "and you need only come in just before we sit down, and go into your own room if you please without coming upstairs at all.
She, with an eagerness which might have been expected from her, had promised that she would slave for him, if slavery were necessary.
"My father's downfall!" said Sybil.
You would think me foolish; but I am alone in the world, and seeing you again, and talking of old times-I really am scarcely fit for business.
This Convention, as you well know, was never much to my taste.
And why should anything happen that should make us apprehensive?"
He can walk into the government offices like themselves and tell his tale, for though one of the pseudo opposition, the moment the people move, the factions become united."
"Qui laborat, orat," said Hatton in a silvery voice, "is the gracious maxim of our Holy Church; and I venture to believe my prayers and vigils have been accepted, for I have laboured in my time," and as he was speaking these words, he turned and addressed them to Sybil.
Their eyes had met: hers were kind and calm.
"There is no wisdom like frankness.
Go, however, I must; I have an appointment at the House of Lords.
Before however her father and his new friend could reach them, Hatton as if some point on which he had not been sufficiently explicit, had occurred to him, stopped and placing his hand on Gerard's arm, withdrew him again, saying in a voice which could only be heard by the individual whom he addressed.
Had he not accompanied me to this door and met my father, which precipitated an explanation on his part which he found had not been given by others, I might have remained in an ignorance which hereafter might have produced inconvenience."
And is it possible, that among the delegates of the People there can be other than one and the same object?"
If I had refused to be a leader, I should not have prevented the movement; I should only have secured my own insignificance."
"Qui laborat, orat," said Sybil with a smile, "is the privilege of the people."
"We have all of us opened ourselves too unreservedly before this aristocrat."
"He chose to wear a disguise, and can hardly quarrel with the frankness with which we spoke of his order or his family.
At this moment Gerard and Hatton who were sitting in the remote part of the room rose together and advanced forward; and this movement interrupted the conversation of Sybil and Morley.
"But your father, Sybil, stands alone," at length Morley replied; "surrounded by votaries who have nothing but enthusiasm to recommend them; and by emulous and intriguing rivals, who watch every word and action, in order that they may discredit his conduct, and ultimately secure his downfall."
"But my father has not these fears; he is full of hope and exultation," said Sybil.
Morley at the same moment approached Sybil, and spoke to her in a subdued tone.
"Perhaps I should rather say of your poor dear father," said Hatton, scanning Gerard with his clear blue eye, and then he added, "He was of great service to me in my youth, and one is not apt to forget such things."
And for the rest, he has not been injured from learning something of the feelings of the people by living among them."
"This world has gone well with you, I am glad to hear and see."
"And this Egremont," said Morley rather hurriedly and abruptly, and looking on the ground, "how came he here?
Your father takes a leading part; he is a great orator, and is in his element in this clamorous and fiery life.
The spirit that would cure our ills must be of a deeper and finer mood."
I thought, whatever might be the result, it must be a satisfaction to Gerard at last to see this man of whom he has talked and thought so much-and so we are here."
"I should hope that none of us have said to him a word that we wish to be forgotten," said Sybil.
"Is he not one of themselves!
When we discovered him yesterday your father and myself agreed that we should not mention to you the-the mystification of which we had been dupes."
She rose and returned his salute with some ceremony; then hesitating while a soft expression came over her countenance, she held forth her hand, which he retained for a moment, and withdrew.
The fact is, in active life one cannot afford to refine.
"I am sure that I should complain of no toil that would benefit you," said Hatton; and then addressing himself again to Gerard, he led him to a distant part of the room where they were soon engaged in earnest converse.
At first he talked of writing to see your father, and I offered that Gerard should call upon him.
Do not they know everything?
"You terrify me," said Sybil.
Sybil turned and looked at him, and then said, "And what could happen to morrow, that we should care for the government being acquainted with it or us?
If money were the only difficulty, trust me, it should not be wanting; I owe much to the memory of your father, my good Gerard; I would fain serve you-and your daughter.
I was about to withdraw, when he asked me carelessly a question about your father; what he was doing, and whether he were married and had children.
It does not much suit me; I am a man of the closet.
This led to a very long conversation in which he suddenly seemed to take great interest.
"I knew we had fearful odds to combat against.
When I heard my father speak the other night, my heart glowed with emotion; my eyes were suffused with tears; I was proud to be his daughter; and I gloried in a race of forefathers who belonged to the oppressed and not to the oppressors."
"All is very well at this moment," said Morley, "and all may continue well; but popular assemblies breed turbulent spirits, Sybil.
"One ought not," said Gerard: "but it is a sort of memory, as I have understood, that is rather rare.
Do not you meet in their very sight?
"Well, that's delight," said Caroline.
"And why not, neighbour?
And those Traffords had so many schools."
Crossing this open ground they gained a suburb, but one of a very different description to that in which was situate the convent where they had parted with Sybil.
"And where have you been this long time, my child; and who's your friend?" she added in a lower tone.
"No; I never heard a thing like that!"
Times is changed indeed!"
All the children keep house in these days.
"Well, I have left Mr Trafford's mill," said the girl.
But young persons-"
Small cops be hanged!
"And we shall be happy to see you, Mick; and Julia, if you are not engaged;" continued the girl; and she looked at her friend, a pretty demure girl, who immediately said, but in a somewhat faultering tone, "Oh! that we shall."
This one was populous, noisy, and lighted.
"You sent up for snicks!
I can't stand a country life, Mrs Carey.
"Hold your tongue, Mr Imperence," said the widow.
You can't come, and you can't go, but there's a fine; you're never paid wages, but there's a bate ticket.
"Very true," said Mick; "and now we'll be off.
If you will take a dish of tea with us to morrow, we expect some friends."
"And what's that?" asked Mrs Carey with a sneer.
One does not like to be seen in these places, as if one kept no company."
I've heard they keep their whole establishment on factory fines."
"What, not when you cut up the jackass and sold it for veal cutlets, mother."
"And what are you going to do now, Caroline?" said Mick.
"I think the world is turned upside downwards in these parts.
They were gaily dressed, a light handkerchief tied under the chin, their hair scrupulously arranged; they wore coral neck laces and earrings of gold.
The Temple!" murmured Mrs Carey to herself.
"To morrow evening!
Good night, widow."
His long, loose, white trousers gave him height; he had no waistcoat, but a pink silk handkerchief was twisted carelessly round his neck, and fastened with a very large pin, which, whatever were its materials, had unquestionably a very gorgeous appearance.
"Well, let it pass," said Mrs Carey.
"That's a bad job," said Mrs Carey; "for those Traffords are kind to their people.
Weal, indeed!
The streets were nearly empty; and with the exception of some occasional burst of brawl or merriment from a beer shop, all was still.
"Come, come, it's a prime piece," said a jolly looking woman, who was presiding at a stall which, though considerably thinned by previous purchasers, still offered many temptations to many who could not purchase.
The bright and lively shops were crowded; and groups of purchasers were gathered round the stalls, that by the aid of glaring lamps and flaunting lanthorns, displayed their wares.
I must have company."
"No butcher's meat to morrow for us, widow," said the man.
"I take it kindly," said Mrs Carey; "and so you keep house together!
"Well, I never," said Mrs Carey.
Those villains, Shuffle and Screw, have sarved me with another bate ticket: and a pretty figure too."
"And for small cops, too!
"Dying; she's only drunk," said the youth.
The moment I came out I bathed in the river, and then went home and dressed," he added in a satisfied tone; "and now I am going to the Temple.
"Well, you need not be so fierce, Mother Carey," said the youth with an affected air of deprecation.
I proposed to go with her-but two girls alone,--you understand me.
"Why, Madam Carey, what has Dandy Mick done to thee?" said a good humoured voice, it came from one of two factory girls who were passing her stall and stopped.
Life went on much as before.
People played that they might not think.
War was to most of the nation a great dramatic spectacle, presented to them at breakfast and in the afternoon editions.
And on the edge of this volcano America played.
Also he promised to be sole heir to a great business.
Three cars before the house showed that she already had callers, and indeed when the parlor maid opened the door a burst of laughter greeted him.
On the east the Russians had made some gains.
If the war only lasted long enough-
She brought them to him instead, her small grievances, her elaborate extravagances, her disappointments.
Somehow here at home they always managed to make him feel like a small boy.
"You're a partner, aren't you?"
She had gone through all sorts of humiliation to get him that money, and this was the gratitude she received.
But he went over and, stooping down, kissed her trembling face.
"I kept the library as long as I could.
Promise me you won't go."
So she watched Graham and listened.
She was quite content then, cheered at once, consulted the jewelled watch on her dressing table and rang for the maid.
When he hesitated she resorted to her old methods with both Clayton and the boy.
"I hate to take it, mother."
"Good for us.
And, too, she had the far vision of the calculating mind. She knew that if the country entered the war, every eligible man she knew would immediately volunteer.
"Tommy!" Marion called, when she had settled herself.
It's time, that's sure."
"Have you noticed a change in your father since he came back?"
Graham, your father thinks we may be forced into the war."
The Hayden house was a general rendezvous.
But I can, easily."
He was only grateful for her confidence, and a trifle bewildered by it.
"Don't worry about me," he said lightly.
There were usually, by seven o'clock, whiskey and soda glasses and tea cups on most of the furniture, and half smoked cigarets on everything that would hold them, including the piano.
"Not yet.
Then she sent the maid away and herself cautiously closed the door into Clayton's room.
"I might have to go," he evaded.
An abiding faith in the Allies was the foundation stone of its complacency.
"Very well.
She was holding out both hands to him, piteously.
"Why, good heavens, mother," he began, "we should have been in it last May.
It did not occur to him that she transferred to his young shoulders many of her own burdens.
I promise," he said at last.
But although the war was in the nation's mind, it was not yet in its soul.
"He's not sick, is he?"
It furnished unlimited conversation at dinner parties, led to endless wrangles, gave zest and point to the peace that made those dinner parties possible, furnished an excuse for retrenchment here and there, and brought into vogue great bazaars and balls for the Red Cross and kindred activities.
Poor people always do.
"About the new war contracts."
And I like big figures.
"Mother," Marion explained, "is getting awfully touchy about the piano. Well, do you remember half the pretty things you told me last night?"
And if we have-"
It was a period of extravagance rather than pleasure.
Pay those bills before your father learns about them.
Audrey Valentine has telephoned that she has just got in, and finds she hasn't enough.
"You won't go.
He sat down, still uneasily fingering the roll of bills.
But-he's different.
"Heavens, how late it is!" she exclaimed.
He even developed an enthusiasm for it, to his own surprise.
She was enormously popular at dances.
"Great Scott!
But she was of the game, no longer in it.
But I meant them."
He flushed slightly.
"Never mind about taking it.
Her house was still a rendezvous, but it was for couples like the ones who had preempted the drawing room, the library and the music room that afternoon.
"You wouldn't, Graham.
You know, I like business.
She was doing all she could to make them happy.
"No, Toots dear.
They brought or sent her tribute, flowers, candy, and cigarets.
The great six months battle of the Somme, with its million casualties, was resulting favorably.
"But I found it very interesting.
He felt every inch a man.
He held himself very straight as he entered the house, and the boyish grin with which he customarily greeted the butler had given place to a dignified nod.
The vast number of war orders from abroad had brought prosperity into homes where it had long been absent.
"You boasted, my dear young friend."
But her resigned voice brought her, as it always had, the ready tribute of the boy's sympathy. "Sit down, Graham, I want to talk to you."
"Oh, business!"
Then, leaning rather heavily on him for support, she got to her feet.
Our peace was at a fearful cost.
Marion Hayden, at twenty five, knew already what her little world had not yet realized, that such beauty as she had had was the beauty of youth only, and that that was going.
"I've got the money for you, darling," she said.
"I'm accustomed to it," was her sole reply.
You're an awful dear, you know."
He was divided between gratitude and indignation.
It was marked by an almost feverish gayety, as though, having apparently determined to pursue a policy dictated purely by self interest, the people wished to forget their anomalous position.
"Was I pretty awful last night?" he asked.
"Five hundred."
"He needs me the hell of a lot," the boy muttered.
Washington, convinced that the nation would ultimately be involved, kept its secret well and continued to preach a neutrality it could not enforce.
Mills and factories took on new life. Labor was scarce and high.
"Fine!
"But you're worrying yourself for nothing, mother."
But of course I shall be."
She knew every move of the game she was determining to play.
"I don't think we've got spine enough to get into the mix up, anyhow.
Which they proceeded to do, quite amiably.
And-I imagine-rather indiscreet."
We should-"
He looked up at her admiringly.
Like Natalie Spencer's stupid party the night before.
She was a really pathetic figure, crouched in her low chair, and shaken with terror.
"I'll be awfully glad to."
"Not exactly.
"Not that.
Natalie was in her dressing room.
They met there, smoked her cigarets, made love in a corner, occasionally became engaged.
I must have been awful."
And she had helped him out of a hole just now.
"You wouldn't go, would you?"
There were wagers that the Germans would be done in the Spring.
His new found maturity seemed to be slipping from him.
"Yes," from a distance.
And, Graham, tell Buckham to do up a dozen dinner napkins in paper.
That's all."
"All right.
Just how far Natalie's methods threatened to undermine his character was revealed when, at a sound in Clayton's room, he stuck the money hastily into his pocket.
Encouraged by her interest, he elaborated on the new work.
All I have left to live for. You wouldn't need to go.
When Graham Spencer left the mill that Tuesday afternoon, it was to visit Marion Hayden.
What did I say?"
David promised to get me the tickets.
"Eleanor?" exclaimed Nora.
I think it's a shame, too.
"After what she has said to you!
But in the dark his lamb's eyes were mysteriously bright.
Levice slept.
Her father also observed it, and resolved upon a course of strict surveillance.
"Feeling quite well," replied Levice; "she is all impatience now for a delirious winter season."
mr Levice, sauntering down the garden path, saw the trio approaching. For a moment he did not recognize the gentleman in his summer attire. When he did, surprise, then pleasure, then a spirit of inquietude, took possession of him.
mrs Levice was, without doubt, awake.
"You will have to excuse my turning my back on you, mrs Levice," he said pleasantly.
It was the first time he had dined with them; and he enjoyed a singular feeling over the situation.
If dr Kemp wished to row, he should row; and since the Jewish mrs Grundy was not on hand, anything harmlessly enjoyable was permissible.
dr Kemp moved quietly back to his former position.
"Indeed, no," she answered; "why should I?
He gently lifted her resisting fingers one by one and raised the broad bone of contention to his shoulder.
She held them lightly in place on her shoulder.
Well (with a passionate fling of her arms), she would extinguish her uncontrollable little beater for the nonce; she would meet and answer every one of his long glances in kind.
"You had better sit down," he said, motioning to the rower's seat.
"You are so slow," she said with a reckless little laugh; "I feel as if I could fly home."
"As yet," corrected Kemp.
mrs Levice was delighted to see him; she said it was like the sight of a cable car in a desert.
ruth went indoors.
"I thought so," laughed the doctor; "but if you take my advice, you will draw the bit slightly."
"I was waiting for you to move from my place," she said in defiant mischief, standing motionless beside the boat.
ruth went straight to the little boat aground on the shore.
He was glad to hear that the doctor had to leave on the early morning's train, though, of course, he did not say so.
"I do not care to be Absalomed; where were your eyes, ruth?" she complained, as Kemp pushed out with a happy, apologetic laugh.
She leaned a little farther forward, looking past Kemp.
She would have been glad enough to be able to turn from the short range of vision between them; but the stars and river afforded her good vantage ground, and on them she fixed her gaze.
The short afternoon glided into evening, and dr Kemp went over to the hotel and dined at the Levices' table.
"Will you sit in the stern or the bow, mrs Levice?"
Kemp grasped his hand heartily.
"I shall sit beside you and use the other oar," he answered nonchalantly, smiling down at her.
"This is a surprise, Doctor," he exclaimed cordially, opening the gate and extending his hand.
Ah, yes; now," he said, holding out his hand to her, "will you step in?"
"And disgust the night with lack of appreciation?"
Against the black lace about her head her face shone like a cameo, her eyes were brown wells of starlight; she scarcely seemed to breathe, so still she sat, her slender hands loosely clasped in her lap.
She felt a positive contempt for herself that his presence should affect her as it did; she dared not look at him lest her heart should flutter to her eyes.
dr Kemp sat opposite her-and mrs Levice slept.
It was a tiny boat; and seated thus, Kemp's knees were not half a foot from Ruth's white gown.
"Wait for us, ruth," called mrs Levice, and the slight white figure stood still till they came up.
As they strolled about afterward, he managed to keep his daughter with him and allowed Kemp to appropriate his wife.
What was she to him anyway but a girl with whom he could flirt in his idle moments?
Then she straightened herself back in her seat.
In five minutes Kemp had grounded the boat and helped mrs Levice out. When he turned for ruth, she had already sprung ashore and had started up the slope; for the first time the oars lay forgotten in the bottom of the boat.
ruth, in a white wool gown, sat opposite him.
Kemp, noting the sudden flush that had rushed to and from her cheek, turned halfway to look at mrs Levice.
"Doctor," called a startled voice, "row out; I am right under the trees."
"I should like to show my prowess to you, Miss Levice."
Sleep!
As she turned in at the gate, he held out his hand to ruth.
Probably the display amused him.
She took his hand and stepped in; they were both standing, and as the little bark swayed he made a movement to catch hold of her.
"Then will you wrap something about you and come down to the river?"
They both started.
"Allow me," he said, placing his hand upon the oars.
"In the bow; I dislike to see dangers before we come to them."
If she had promised to take care of ruth, it would have been more to his mind; but since his wife was there, what harm could accrue that his presence would prevent?
"Hadn't you better put something over your shoulders?" he asked deferentially as she appeared.
She raised her shy eyes for one brief second to his glowing ones; and he passed, a tall, dark figure, down the shadowy road.
Now, when he decidedly objected to moving, it would have been heartless not to go.
"Mamma!"
"In what?" she asked, somewhat dazed.
He protested at such a stupendous comparison, and insisted that she make clear that the dummy was not included.
"I am a sort of surprise party," he answered, swinging Ethel to the ground and watching her scamper off to the hotel; "and what is more," he continued, turning to him, "I have not brought a hamper, which makes one of me."
The water dipped and lapped about the sides; the tender woman's voice across the water stole to them, singing of love; their eyes met-and mrs Levice slept.
"And they are stanch, silent friends on such a night," remarked Kemp, softly.
She could not yet meet his eyes again.
"There is nothing abroad here but the stars," she answered, flitting before them.
"How is she?" he asked, turning with him and catching a glimpse of Ruth's vanishing figure.
Chapter fifteen
"Your place?
"Others are enjoying themselves also," he remarked as their feet touched the pebbly beach.
As they approached the river, the faint susurra came to them, mingled with the sound of a guitar and some one singing in the distance.
Slowly and more slowly sped the tiny boat; long gentle strokes touched the water; and presently the oars lay idle in their locks,--they were unconsciously drifting.
This was certainly something she had not bargained for.
For old man as he was, he realized that dr Kemp's strong personality was such as would prove dangerously seductive to any woman whom he cared to honor with his favor; but with a "Get thee behind me, Satan" desire, he had put the question from him.
He helped her carefully to her place; she thanked him laughingly for his exceptionally strong arm, and he turned to ruth.
His flannel shirt, low at the throat, showed his strong white neck rising like a column from his broad shoulders, and his dark face with the steady gray eyes looked across at her with grave sweetness.
"It must be time to sight home now," said her mother; "I am quite chilly."
With a half pleased feeling of discomfiture ruth seated herself in the stern, whereupon Kemp sat in the contested throne.
He noticed that although mrs Levice kept up an almost incessant flow of talk, she ate a hearty meal, and that ruth, who was unusually quiet, tasted scarcely anything.
She kept before them till they reached the gate, and stood inside of it as they drew near.
"It looks like a cockle shell," he said, as he put one foot in after shoving it off.
"Don't consider me," said the doctor, observing his hesitancy.
With this new crown upon her!
"She looks like the 'Vendetta' or the 'Camorra' or some other Italian vengeance agency, doesn't she?" said Nora with a giggle.
She turned white and half started toward Grace, then stopped, and, turning her back upon the Phi Sigma Tau, began talking to Edna Wright.
mr Southard is shaking hands with her."
Besides, Miss Pierson is too short.
"What do you suppose she's up to now?"
Grace laughed in spite of herself at Nora's remark, but regretted it the next moment, for Eleanor saw the glances directed toward her and heard Nora's giggle.
"What you say about appearance is quite true, Miss Savell," replied Miss Tebbs frankly.
"Of what are you talking?"
Tell her that you insist upon her marrying him."
Not that I have much pleasure, indeed, in talking to anybody.
"Speak to Lizzy about it yourself.
We now come to the point.
She shall hear my opinion."
"Yes, or I will never see her again."
Not yet, however, in spite of her disappointment in her husband, did mrs Bennet give up the point.
Nobody can tell what I suffer!
"But, depend upon it, mr Collins," she added, "that Lizzy shall be brought to reason.
I told you in the library, you know, that I should never speak to you again, and you will find me as good as my word.
In everything else she is as good-natured a girl as ever lived.
"Pray do, my dear Miss Lucas," she added in a melancholy tone, "for nobody is on my side, nobody takes part with me.
"Yes, there can; for mine is totally different.
"That is right.
Will you hear it?"
My dear Charlotte-impossible!"
"Engaged to mr Collins!
Sylvia looked stunning.
Where does the joke come in, Polly, my boy?"
He bent forward and took her hand.
Ruggles, hanging halfway out of the window as usual, saw her, and called me to go and look.
As for the Old Fellow, he looked, as Em White would say, as Sphinx like as ever. I'd defy any man alive to tell from the Old Fellow's expression what he was thinking about or what he felt like at any time.
She'll give him a fearful snubbing, and we'll be revenged."
I know he writes to Em White in vacations.
Sylvia was the Latin professor's daughter; she wasn't a Cad girl, of course.
"Sylvia," said the Old Fellow, "I've loved you for years.
Sylvia Grant did go down the street, however.
I never thought the Old Fellow or Sylvia either could be so spooney.
"But look here," I said, an uncomfortable idea striking me, "what about Sylvia?
Of course I went.
You can imitate the Old Fellow's handwriting so well."
Ruggles and I never meant to listen, upon my word we didn't.
The girls are always a little provoked at him because he is so shy and absent minded, but when it comes to the point, they like him too.
It was awful.
Most of the Cads like the Old Fellow.
You've had more practice."
Ruggles was mad because he's gone on Em.
"She did," said Ruggles gloomily.
"It's on us," I said, "but nobody will know of it if we hold our tongues.
At this point Ruggles and I differ as to what came next.
Then all at once Sylvia said softly, with her eyes cast down, "I received your letter, mr Osborne."
"She's thinking of the letter," he said.
"Well, did you ever?" said Ruggles.
Micky had it the worst, and we had all made up our minds that Sylvia would marry Micky.
It was beautifully expressed.
He was so handsome, we didn't see how she could help it.
They were brownish, kind of, and she'd a spanking hat on with feathers and things in it.
His eyes just blazed, but his face went white.
I told him so, and made him own up.
He is splendid: big six footer with magnificent muscles, red cheeks, and curly yellow hair.
Then she saw Ruggles and me and she waved her hand and laughed, and her big blackish blue eyes sparkled; but she hadn't been laughing before, or sparkling either.
I thought it quite useless to tell you of my love-before.
"Sylvia, do you mean that you-you actually care a little for me, dearest?
They couldn't see us, but we could see them quite plainly.
She's always so cool and stiff when he's about, not a bit like she is with the other professors."
My private opinion is that Sylvia hadn't any, or she would never have preferred-but there, I'm getting on too fast again.
"I've always cared-ever since I was a little girl coming here to school and breaking my heart over mathematics, although I hated them, just to be in your class. Why-why-I've treasured up old geometry exercises you wrote out for me just because you wrote them.
"No, I never," I said.
It was a girl's exclamation, but nothing else would have expressed his feelings.
His voice actually trembled.
It was pure accident.
Both Ruggles and I see that now, since we have had time to cool off, but at the moment we were in a fearful wax at the Old Fellow and were bound to hatch up something to get even with him.
"I can't.
"Yes," said Sylvia, not much above a whisper.
"I'll do my best," he said, quite meekly.
It passes comprehension.
She was all in white, with a string of pearls about her pretty round throat and a couple of little pink roses in her black hair.
There was a rumour running at large in the Academy that the Old Fellow wrote poetry, but he ran the mathematics and didn't make such a foozle of it as you might suppose, either.
Any other man in the world would have jumped, or said, "My letter!!!" or shown surprise in some way.
He looked sideways at Sylvia for a moment and then he said kind of drily, "Ah, did you?"
He asserts that Sylvia turned square around and kissed the Old Fellow.
Ruggles turned red.
Well, Ruggles wrote the letter.
I copied the letter out on heliotrope paper in my best imitation of the Old Fellow's handwriting and signed it, "Yours devotedly and imploringly, George Osborne." Then we mailed it that very evening.
I never supposed that you-you cared for me in that way."
The Old Fellow's Letter
Of course, the Old Fellow had another name, just as Ruggles has another name.
The room was quite empty, or they thought it was, and they sat down just on the other side of the flags.
Did she-did she really promise to marry him, Ruggles?"
You'll have to, Ruggles.
Even Ruggles and I like him on the average.
But I thought I could never make you care for me.
I was the happiest girl in the world when your letter came today."
We haven't anything against her, you know."
Ruggles and I would have given anything on earth to be out of that.
Well, as I said before, I toddled to the window to have a look at the fair Sylvia.
She'll just laugh.
"But, I say, isn't that Old Fellow game?
As for brains, that is another thing altogether.
Her hair was shining under it, all purply black, and she looked sweet enough to eat.
"Well, you know the Old Fellow isn't a bad sort after all," said Ruggles, "and he's really awfully gone on her.
He lifted his hat and passed on, but after a few steps he turned and looked back; he caught Sylvia doing the same thing, so he wheeled and came on, looking mighty foolish.
"You see-I don't want you to help caring."
She was over twenty and had graduated from it two years ago, but she was in all the social things that went on in the Academy; and all the unmarried professors, except the Old Fellow, were in love with her.
Just across the square Sylvia met the Old Fellow and bowed.
I tell you, they made a dandy looking couple when they were together.
Sylvia Grant was always worth looking at.
I heard Emma White say once that he was "so handsome"; I nearly whooped.
Anyhow, there they both were, going on at the silliest rate about how much they loved each other and how the Old Fellow thought she loved Micky and all that sort of thing.
He is quite old-thirty six if he's a day, and whatever possessed Sylvia Grant-but there, I'm getting ahead of my story.
"Of course I do," said Sylvia right out.
"She's the sort of girl who can take a joke.
Anyhow, that letter just filled the bill.
For of course he'll tell her.
I thought it kind of mean of Sylvia to torment him so, when she knew he hated to have to talk to girls, but when I saw Micky scowling at the corner, I knew she was doing it to make him jealous.
"That is, I'll compose it. But you'll have to copy it.
I never saw her so smiling and bright; but she seemed quieter than usual, and avoided poor Micky so skilfully that it was really a pleasure to watch her.
"It-it surprised me very much.
"Oh, Sylvia won't care," said Ruggles serenely.
He is principal of the Frampton Academy-the Old Fellow, not Ruggles-and his name is George Osborne.
Will you-can you be my wife, darling?"
Tumbled to the trick in a jiff; never let on but what he wrote the letter, never will let on, I bet.
Besides, she doesn't like the Old Fellow a bit.
But high up their tops were green and caught the saffron light of the west.
Can you forgive my mistake, my long blindness? Can you care for me again-a little?"
As he passed through it he lifted his eyes and there before him he saw her, standing tall and gracious among the grey trees, with the light from the west falling over her face.
He understood that he could not bring back to the old valley what he had taken from it.
He and Stephen talked late that night, and in the morning he yielded to their entreaties to stay another day with them.
The old bond held.
"I have place and wealth and power.
But I have discovered my loss."
He had lived on the homestead until he was twenty.
There had been many changes, of that he felt sure.
The new, fierce, burning interests that came into his life crowded the old ones out. Boyhood's love was scorched up in that hot flame of ambition and contest.
Beyond it, amid tall elms, was the old church with its square tower hung with ivy.
He would stay awhile on the hill, until the night came down over it, and then he would go back to his own place.
The kitchen door swung open on rusty hinges; the windows were broken and lifeless; weeds grew thickly over the yard and crowded wantonly up to the very threshold through the chinks of the rotten platform.
Yet he felt himself the stranger and the alien, whom the long, swift passing years had shut forever from his old place.
Perhaps so.
Father and Mother will be glad to see you."
Cuthbert Marshall sat down on the old red sandstone step of the door and bowed his head in his hands.
He could not enter again into the heritage of boyhood and the heart of youth.
Down in the valley the lights began to twinkle out here and there like earth stars.
Wonderful things, beautiful things, heart breaking things."
She had kept her freshness of soul and her ideals untarnished.
He wanted to go beyond the hills and seek what he knew must be there.
As he listened to the swish and murmur of the wind, the earth old tune with the power to carry the soul back to the dawn of time, the years fell away from him and he forgot much, remembering more.
She smiled and put out her hand.
You have lived here in the old valley all these years?"
He must know why the homelight had failed him.
She had not changed; he realized that in the first amazed, incredulous glance.
Oh, bitterness!
This valley had his past in its keeping, but it could not give it back to him; he had lost the master word that might have compelled it.
Yet it might be he had chosen the better part, to dwell thus on the land of his fathers, with a wife won in youth, and children to grow up around him.
"Let us stay here awhile first, Joyce.
This was the question he asked himself.
Stephen came to it, a stout grizzled farmer, with a chubby boy on his shoulder.
He had called that longing by other names, but he knew it now for what it was when, hearing, he was satisfied.
He spent it wandering about the farm and the old haunts of wood and stream.
Where might he find them again? Were they yet to be had for the seeking in the old valley?
"Joyce!" he said, stupidly, unbelievingly.
He had not heard from or of Joyce for many years.
There was the school he had attended, a small, low eaved, white washed building set back from the main road among green spruces.
Cuthbert was obliged to tell who he was.
It seemed to him that she held in her keeping all the good of his life, all the beauty of his past, all the possibilities of his future.
How true and strong and womanly and gentle she had always been!
But his heart was not in his work.
He recalled the many times he had walked to it on the peaceful Sunday afternoons, sometimes with his mother, sometimes with Joyce.
"no
"Yet you have been a very successful man," she said wonderingly.
He had lost that intangible, all real wealth of faith and idealism and zest; he had bartered it away for the hard, yellow gold of the marketplace, and he realized at last how much poorer he was than when he had left that home valley.
With a smile she had made answer,
But at the last he felt afraid.
I did not miss these things for a long while; I did not even know I had lost them.
He walked slowly and dreamily, with his eyes on the far hills scarfed in the splendour of sunset.
They had parted without pledge or kiss, yet he knew she loved him and that he loved her.
So he had walked in the old days, but he had no dreams now of what lay beyond the hills, and Joyce would not be waiting among the firs.
The man halted on the crest of the hill and looked sombrely down into the long valley below.
He wondered where Joyce was now and whom she had married, for of course she had married.
Stephen had been a good sort of a fellow, a bit slow and plodding, perhaps, bovinely content to dwell within the hills, never hearkening or responding to the lure of the beyond.
Where was the eagerness and zest of new dawns, the earnestness of well filled, purposeful hours of labour, the satisfaction of a good day worthily lived, at eventide the unbroken rest of long, starry nights?
"What is over the hills?" he had asked of his mother.
Would it not be better to go away, having looked at it from the hill and having heard the saga of the firs, keeping his memory of it unblurred, than risk the probable disillusion of a return to the places that had forgotten him and friends whom the varying years must certainly have changed as he had changed himself? No, he would not go down.
When he left home he had meant to go back to her some day.
And I thought you would be over to see us this evening."
Should he go down to it?
In the peace of the old valley she had lived a life, narrow outwardly, wondrously deep and wide in thought and aspiration. Her native hills bounded the vision of her eyes, but the outlook of the soul was far and unhindered.
If my love means so much to you it is yours, Cuthbert-it always has been yours."
When darkness came down through the firs he told her all this, haltingly, blunderingly, yearningly.
The boys and girls, too, soon made friends with him.
"Some day I shall go over the hills and find them all, Mother," he had said stoutly.
It told of power and intellect, but the soul of the man was a hidden thing.
The stile he remembered was gone, replaced by a little rustic gate.
"Joyce, is it too late?
The twilight is so kind it hides that, but it is true.
It had been by these firs he had halted twenty years ago, turning for one last glance at the valley below, the home valley which he had never seen since.
That name had all unconsciously been kept sacred to the long, green, seaward looking glen where he had been born.
He asked Stephen fully about all his old friends and neighbours with one exception.
"I am glad to see you, Cuthbert," she said simply.
So he had come back to it, drawn by a longing not to be resisted.
The stars came out singly and crystal clear over the far purple curves of the hills.
There was no one left there, unchanged and unchanging, to welcome him.
"As the world calls success," he answered bitterly.
Oh, fool and blind that he had been!
While he had sought and toiled afar, the best that God had meant for him had been here in the home of youth.
Last night I stood on those hills yonder and looked down, but I meant to go away because I thought there would be no one left to welcome me.
At first they corresponded, then the letters began to grow fewer.
She had laughed and sighed and caught him to her heart.
In the quiet places and the green ways she had found what he had failed to find-the secret of happiness and content.
She had offered him only one hand but he took both and held her so, looking hungrily down at her as a man looks at something he knows must be his salvation if salvation exists for him.
Would it still be home?
He had tilled the broad fields and gone in and out among the people, and their life had been his life.
I am tired of these things; they are the toys of grown up children; they do not satisfy the man's soul.
Suddenly, glancing over his shoulder, he saw through an arch of black fir boughs a young moon swung low in a lake of palely tinted saffron sky.
Perhaps there were lines on her face, a thread or two of silver in the soft brown hair, but those splendid steady blue eyes were the same, and the soul of her looked out through them, true to itself, the staunch, brave, sweet soul of the maiden ripened to womanhood.
Why was it lacking, that light he had so often hailed at dark, coming home from boyish rambles on the hills?
He had had many habitations, but he realized now that he had never thought of any of these places as home.
It would have left life too empty.
He could not ask him what had become of Joyce Cameron. The question was on his lips a dozen times, but he shrank from uttering it.
He was silent, remembering that he had forfeited all right to her help in the quest.
The gist of the lesson is that I left happiness behind me in the old valley, when I went away from it, happiness and peace and the joy of living.
Where were the ideals of his youth, the lofty aspirations that had upborne him then?
Now, again, he remembered as he looked down on the homeland fields.
He was made instantly and warmly welcome.
Yet he realized clearly that only she could help him, only she could guide him back to the path he had missed.
"I have never ceased to care," she said in a low tone.
He would wait until he saw the kitchen light from the window of his old home.
The valley was too narrow, too placid.
"All these years," she said gently, "I suppose you think it must have been a very meagre life?"
Hers was the master word, but how should he dare ask her to utter it?
If I had known you were here!
"Is it possible you are here still, Joyce?" he said slowly.
He felt anxious and dissatisfied, as if he could not go away until he had seen it.
It had been a foolish whim to come at all-foolish, because the object of his quest was not to be found there or elsewhere.
When he found himself in the old garden his heart grew sick and sore with disappointment and a bitter homesickness.
Yet he could not find himself.
With the thought came a great yearning for home.
He longed for conflict and accomplishment.
He would be a stranger there, even among his kin.
No, he would not go down.
A wind that blew across it from the misty blue sea beyond was making wild music in the rugged firs above his head as he stood in an angle of the weather grey longer fence, knee deep in bracken.
Not in the arena where he had fought and triumphed, giving fierce blow for blow, was it to be shown; but here, looking down on the homeland, with the strength of the hills about him, it rose dominantly and claimed its own.
When it was quite dark he descended the hill resolutely.
He smiled a little, remembering that in boyhood it had been held a good omen to see the new moon over the right shoulder.
I have come back to the old valley seeking for what might satisfy, but I have little hope of finding it, unless-unless-"
He remembered that when a boy he had thought there was nothing more beautiful than the evening sunshine falling athwart the dark green fir boughs on the hills.
"Many things, laddie.
It was evening, and although the hills around him were still in the light the valley was already filled with kindly, placid shadows.
For years they had satisfied him, the buying and selling and getting gain, the pitting of strength and craft against strength and craft, the tireless struggle, the exultation of victory.
He had no recollection of his father, who had died soon after his son's birth, but how well he remembered his mother, his little, brown eyed, girlish faced mother!
His was a name that stood for millions, but he was beggared of hope and purpose.
He felt glad to see it; he had expected to see a new church, offensively spick and span and modern, for this church had been old when he was a boy.
The old places had changed little, whatever he might fear of the people who lived in them.
He had come back to it, heartsick of his idols of the marketplace.
And if not, would not the loss be most irreparable and bitter?
They walked among the firs until the stars came out, and they talked of many things.
She coloured slightly and pulled away her hands, laughing.
She turned her face upward to the sky between the swaying fir tops and he saw the reflection of a star in her eyes.
"Stephen's Mary told me you had come.
This was what he had come back to-this ghost and wreck of his past!
Down below him, on the crest of a little upland, he saw his old home, a weather grey house, almost hidden among white birch and apple trees, with a thick fir grove to the north of it.
Eagle eyes, quick to discern and unfaltering to pursue; jaw square and intrepid; mouth formed to keep secrets and cajole men to his will-a face that hid much and revealed little.
It needed but a glance, even in the dimness of the summer night, to see that the old house was deserted and falling to decay.
He had been born in that old house; his earliest memory was of standing on its threshold and looking afar up to the long green hills.
"After a little," he said imploringly.
Then he would go.
One learns there-in time-but sometimes the lesson is learned too late.
But that is not success, Joyce.
Finally, the last chapter attempts to place the fact of the life of the Spirit in its relation to the social order, and to indicate some of the results which might follow upon its healthy corporate development.
Their treatment in the present work is necessarily fragmentary and suggestive; and is intended rather to stimulate thought, than to offer solutions.
This book owes its origin to the fact that in the autumn of nineteen twenty one the authorities of Manchester College, Oxford invited me to deliver the inaugural course of a lectureship in religion newly established under the will of the late Professor Upton.
The succeeding sections of the book treat in some detail the light cast on spiritual problems by mental analysis-a process which need not necessarily be conducted from the standpoint of a degraded materialism-and by recent work on the psychology of autistic thought and of suggestion.
PREFACE
For the same reason, no attention has been given to those abnormal experiences and states of consciousness, which, too often regarded as specially "mystical," are now recognized by all competent students as representing the unfortunate accidents rather than the abiding substance of spirituality.
Since my subject is not the splendor of historic sanctity but the normal life of the Spirit, as it may be and is lived in the here and now, I have done my best to describe the character and meaning of this life in the ordinary terms of present day thought, and with little or no use of the technical language of mysticism.
No conditions being attached to this appointment, it seemed a suitable opportunity to discuss, so far as possible in the language of the moment, some of the implicits which I believe to underlie human effort and achievement in the domain of the spiritual life.
Part of Chapter four has already appeared in "The Fortnightly Review" under the title "Suggestion and Religious Experience." Chapter eight incorporates several passages from an article on "Sources of Power in Human Life" originally contributed to the "Hubert Journal." These are reprinted by kind permission of the editors concerned.
My aim here is the more general one, of indicating first the characteristic experiences-discoverable within all great religions-which justify or are fundamental to the spiritual life, and the way in which these experiences may be accommodated to the world view of the modern man: and next, the nature of that spiritual life as it appears in human history.
For information on these matters they must go to larger and more technical works.
Readers of these pages will find nothing about trances, Ecstasies and other rare psychic phenomena; which sometimes indicate holiness, and sometimes only disease.
My numerous debts to previous writers are obvious, and for the most part are acknowledged in the footnotes; the greatest, to the works of Baron Von Hugely, will be clear to all students of his writings.
Thanks are also due to my old friend William Scott Palmer, who read part of the manuscript and gave me much generous and valuable advice.
seven.
It is superfluous to point out that each of these subjects needs, at least, a volume to itself: and to some of them I shall hope to return in the future.
This marring of the peace of home, by long hours of discontent, was what Margaret was unprepared for.
I'm sure you don't want me to admire butchers and bakers, and candlestick makers, do you, mamma?'
He had a trick of half opening his mouth as if to speak, which constantly unsettled the form of the lips, and gave the face an undecided expression.
Its people were her people.
I'm glad we don't visit them.
HEMANS.
I never understood it from Aunt Shaw; I only knew he could not come back to England because of that terrible affair. Poor dear papa! how sad he looks!
When Margaret had been here before, she had brought down with her a great box of books, recommended by masters or governess, and had found the summer's day all too short to get through the reading she had to do before her return to town.
Margaret was painfully struck by the worn, anxious expression; and she went back over the open and avowed circumstances of her father's life, to find the cause for the lines that spoke so plainly of habitual distress and depression.
But the cloud never comes in that quarter of the horizon from which we watch for it.
And when the brilliant fourteen fine days of October came on, her cares were all blown away as lightly as thistledown, and she thought of nothing but the glories of the forest.
She remained with her, and was devoted to her interests; always considering herself as the good and protecting fairy, whose duty it was to baffle the malignant giant, mr Hale.
Accordingly, she was busy preparing her board one morning, when Sarah, the housemaid, threw wide open the drawing room door and announced, 'mr
Now there were only the well bound little read English Classics, which were weeded out of her father's library to fill up the small book shelves in the drawing room.
Her in doors life had its drawbacks.
If mrs Shaw had guessed at the real reason why mrs Hale did not accompany her husband, she would have showered down gowns upon her; but it was nearly twenty years since mrs Shaw had been the poor, pretty Miss Beresford, and she had really forgotten all grievances except that of the unhappiness arising from disparity of age in married life, on which she could descant by the half hour.
I call mine a very comprehensive taste; I like all people whose occupations have to do with land; I like soldiers and sailors, and the three learned professions, as they call them.
In one of the letters she had received before leaving Harley Street, her father had told her that they had heard from Frederick; he was still at Rio, and very well in health, and sent his best love to her; which was dry bones, but not the living intelligence she longed for.
But he had the same large, soft eyes as his daughter,--eyes which moved slowly and almost grandly round in their orbits, and were well veiled by their transparent white eyelids. Margaret was more like him than like her mother.
Helstone was at some distance from any neighbours of their own standard of cultivation.
If the look on her face was, in general, too dignified and reserved for one so young, now, talking to her father, it was bright as the morning,--full of dimples, and glances that spoke of childish gladness, and boundless hope in the future.
'But the Gormans were neither butchers nor bakers, but very respectable coach builders.'
With the healthy shame of a child, she blamed herself for her keenness of sight, in perceiving that all was not as it should be there.
Coach building is a trade all the same, and I think a much more useless one than that of butchers or bakers.
Her mother-her mother always so kind and tender towards her-seemed now and then so much discontented with their situation; thought that the bishop strangely neglected his episcopal duties, in not giving mr Hale a better living; and almost reproached her husband because he could not bring himself to say that he wished to leave the parish, and undertake the charge of a larger.
His spirits were always tender and gentle, readily affected by any small piece of intelligence concerning the welfare of others.
Margaret could not help believing that there had been some late intelligence of Frederick, unknown to her mother, which was making her father anxious and uneasy.
CHAPTER two
But now Margaret noticed an absence of mind, as if his thoughts were pre occupied by some subject, the oppression of which could not be relieved by any daily action, such as comforting the survivors, or teaching at the school in hope of lessening the evils in the generation to come.
I wish I knew all about it.
She was so happy out of doors, at her father's side, that she almost danced; and with the soft violence of the west wind behind her, as she crossed some heath, she seemed to be borne onwards, as lightly and easily as the fallen leaf that was wafted along by the autumnal breeze.
At one time they had tried backgammon as a resource; but as mr Hale grew to take an increasing interest in his school and his parishioners, he found that the interruptions which arose out of these duties were regarded as hardships by his wife, not to be accepted as the natural conditions of his profession, but to be regretted and struggled against by her as they severally arose.
Master Frederick had been her favorite and pride; and it was with a little softening of her dignified look and manner, that she went in weekly to arrange the chamber as carefully as if he might be coming home that very evening.
The bones of his face were plainly to be seen-too plainly for beauty, if his features had been less finely cut; as it was, they had a grace if not a comeliness of their own.
It was the latter part of July when Margaret returned home.
Oh! how tired I used to be of the drives every day in Aunt Shaw's carriage, and how I longed to walk!'
She was ready with a bright smile, in which there was not a trace of fatigue, to greet her father when he awakened.
The book shelves did not afford much resource. Margaret told her mother every particular of her London life, to all of which mrs Hale listened with interest, sometimes amused and questioning, at others a little inclined to compare her sister's circumstances of ease and comfort with the narrower means at Helstone vicarage.
He smiled back again, but faintly, as if it were an unusual exertion.
His face returned into its lines of habitual anxiety.
This did good for a time; but when the autumn drew on, and the weather became more changeable, her mother's idea of the unhealthiness of the place increased; and she repined even more frequently that her husband, who was more learned than mr Hume, a better parish priest than mr Houldsworth, should not have met with the preferment that these two former neighbours of theirs had done.
He would sigh aloud as he answered, that if he could do what he ought in little Helstone, he should be thankful; but every day he was more overpowered; the world became more bewildering.
'It is undoubtedly one of the most out of the way places in England,' said mrs Hale, in one of her plaintive moods.
'You must not be so fastidious, Margaret, dear!' said her mother, secretly thinking of a young and handsome mr Gorman whom she had once met at mr Hume's.
She knew, and had rather revelled in the idea, that she should have to give up many luxuries, which had only been troubles and trammels to her freedom in Harley Street.
I am so glad I am going home, to be at hand to comfort him and mamma.
Her mind and body ached now with the recollection of all she had done and said within the last forty eight hours.
ROSES AND THORNS
In the latter half of September, the autumnal rains and storms came on, and Margaret was obliged to remain more in the house than she had hitherto done.
His blue black hair was grey now, and lay thinly over his brows.
I think we are far better off, knowing only cottagers and labourers, and people without pretence.'
Thomson's Seasons, Hayley's Cowper, Middleton's Cicero, were by far the lightest, newest, and most amusing.
So he withdrew, while the children were yet young, into his library, to spend his evenings (if he were at home), in reading the speculative and metaphysical books which were his delight.
He would be depressed for many days after witnessing a death bed, or hearing of any crime.
Her eyes began to see, not visions of what had been, but the sight actually before her; her dear father leaning back asleep in the railway carriage.
She took her mind away with a wrench from the recollection of the past to the bright serene contemplation of the hopeful future.
mr Hale was one of the most delightful preachers she had ever heard, and a perfect model of a parish priest.
And walk Margaret did, in spite of the weather.
The fern harvest was over, and now that the rain was gone, many a deep glade was accessible, into which Margaret had only peeped in July and August weather.
Her keen enjoyment of every sensuous pleasure, was balanced finely, if not overbalanced, by her conscious pride in being able to do without them all, if need were.
'Oh! if Frederick had but been a clergyman, instead of going into the navy, and being lost to us all!
The face was in repose; but it was rather rest after weariness, than the serene calm of the countenance of one who led a placid, contented life.
'No!
Her out of doors life was perfect.
I don't like shoppy people.
'Very well.
Margaret was once more in her morning dress, travelling quietly home with her father, who had come up to assist at the wedding.
But the evenings were rather difficult to fill up agreeably.
'I think I should like to know all about them, if I were you,' replied Margaret quietly.
My mother is not given to complaints,' said he, a little proudly. 'But so much the more I have to watch over you.
'I do not feel that my very natural liking for the place where I was born and brought up,--and which has since been my residence for some years, requires any accounting for.'
'It will do you good, instead of harm.
I am going to morrow.
Margaret was vexed.
'john always speaks as if I fancied I was ill, and I am sure I never do fancy any such thing.
'I am fond of hearing good music; I cannot play well myself; and papa and mamma don't care much about it; so we sold our old piano when we came here.'
'Yes,' said Margaret, 'I have lived there for several years.'
I need hardly say, that if there is any little thing that could serve mrs Hale as an invalid, you will offer it, I'm sure.'
mrs Thornton was shy.
Her son had given her a carriage; but she refused to let him keep horses for it; they were hired for the solemn occasions, when she paid morning or evening visits.
MORNING CALLS
'If I can find it out, I will.
He has good reasons of some kind or other, or he would not wish us to go.
The carriage could fetch her, and she could spend the rest of the day here, which I know she would like.'
'I never complained of it, I'm sure.'
Have you seen any of our factories?
'London and the Alhambra!'
CHAPTER twelve
'Yes! ever since I read the Tales of the Alhambra.
mr Thornton looked annoyed.
'Fanny!
'They are very curious places,' said mrs Hale, 'but there is so much noise and dirt always.
She will be able to suggest something, perhaps-won't you, Fan?'
She could not bear it.' mrs Thornton was silent after this; for her last words bore relation to a subject which mortified her.
'Fifteen shillings a week, and three saved out of them!' thought Margaret to herself 'But she must have been very young.
He went abruptly out of the room after saying this.
'If it has been mrs Thornton's home for some years, I can well understand her loving it,' said Margaret, in her clear bell like voice.
Margaret was busy embroidering a small piece of cambric for some little article of dress for Edith's expected baby-'Flimsy, useless work,' as mrs Thornton observed to herself.
'She is not made of the same stuff as you are, john.
But such a one would have been deeply mistaken.
'I wonder how you can exist without one.
It's in the same direction, and she's always so glad to see you.
'I thought I was doing my duty by talking to her, and trying to amuse her.'
'Fanny dear I shall have horses to the carriage to day, to go and call on these Hales.
The mother looks very ill, and seems a nice, quiet kind of person.'
'Thank you,' said mrs Thornton.
But this going to make acquaintance with strangers was a very different thing.
You have been in London, of course.'
She would have been thankful if it had not; for, as she said, 'she saw no use in making up friendships and intimacies with all the teachers and masters in Milton; why, he would be wanting her to call on Fanny's dancing master's wife, the next thing!'
She never called her son by any name but john; 'love,' and 'dear,' and such like terms, were reserved for Fanny.
But she must know of those days.' Margaret's manner had an extra tinge of coldness in it when she next spoke.
Now as for Fanny there, a little hardship would do her good.'
mrs Hale was making rather more exertion in her answers, captivated by some real old lace which mrs Thornton wore; 'lace,' as she afterwards observed to Dixon, 'of that old English point which has not been made for this seventy years, and which cannot be bought.
'Very probably,' said mrs Thornton, in a short displeased manner.
mrs Thornton went on after a moment's pause:
I always have a large order to give to Johnson's, the day after a concert.'
But one is sure to hear the newest music there.
'Well! here is Fanny then, who is seldom without an ailment.
'Fanny, don't speak so of your brother.
She liked mrs Hale's double knitting far better; that was sensible of its kind.
As Fanny had put it, it did seem as if they had been impertinently discussing mrs Thornton's feelings; but she also rose up against that lady's manner of showing that she was offended.
But surely, it is a very easy journey to London.'
our magnificent warehouses?'
'It will be a long way for her to walk back at night!' she remarked, at last.
'If you are going to morrow, I shall order horses.'
mrs Thornton did not speak; but she laid her work on the table, and seemed to think.
It almost seems to me a necessary of life.'
It was only of late years that she had had leisure enough in her life to go into society; and as society she did not enjoy it.
'Do you like new music simply for its newness, then?'
I remember once going in a lilac silk to see candles made, and my gown was utterly ruined.'
'Oh! mamma, it's such a long way, and I am so tired.'
She is very proud of Milton; dirty, smoky place, as I feel it to be.
Margaret had not the words ready for an answer to this question, which took her a little by surprise, so Miss Thornton replied:
And presently, Margaret, racking her brain to talk to Fanny, heard her mother and mrs Thornton plunge into the interminable subject of servants.
May I inquire?'
Make haste and put your things on.'
I wish you to go,' said he, authoritatively.
'Fanny!' said her mother, as they drove away, 'we will be civil to these Hales: but don't form one of your hasty friendships with the daughter. She will do you no good, I see.
'Oh, but I will send her home in a cab.
Who are these Hales that he makes such a fuss about?'
'I have not always an ailment,' said Fanny, pettishly; 'and I am not going with mamma.
Yet Crampton was too far off for her to walk; and she had repeatedly questioned her son as to whether his wish that she should call on the Hales was strong enough to bear the expense of cab hire.
But I really do not find much pleasure in going over manufactories.'
'Not quite, yet.
She probably has forgotten her own personal experience.
'I dare say, papa would have taken me before now if I had cared.
A stranger, a careless observer might have considered that mrs Thornton's manner to her children betokened far more love to Fanny than to john.
But about the horses I'm determined.
'No!' said Margaret. 'I have not seen anything of that description as yet.' Then she felt that, by concealing her utter indifference to all such places, she was hardly speaking with truth; so she went on:
Don't you know them?'
'Mother!
'What are you saying about me, Miss Hale?
I only wanted you exactly to understand about it.'
'With what?' asked mrs Thornton, her brow slightly contracting.
One would think you were made of money.'
'You have good concerts here, I believe.'
'I don't think I do.
But I have never been ill myself, so I am not much up to invalids' fancies.'
mr Thornton had had some difficulty in working up his mother to the desired point of civility.
She had an unconscious contempt for a weak character; and Fanny was weak in the very points in which her mother and brother were strong.
'I don't know-the weather, I think.
As dinner giving, and as criticising other people's dinners, she took satisfaction in it.
'I suppose you are not musical,' said Fanny, 'as I see no piano.'
It must have been an heir loom, and shows that she had ancestors.' So the owner of the ancestral lace became worthy of something more than the languid exertion to be agreeable to a visitor, by which mrs Hale's efforts at conversation would have been otherwise bounded.
'Oh! you need not speak so hastily.
'I merely thought, that as strangers newly come to reside in a town which has risen to eminence in the country, from the character and progress of its peculiar business, you might have cared to visit some of the places where it is carried on; places unique in the kingdom, I am informed.
She was ill at ease, and looked more than usually stern and forbidding as she entered the Hales' little drawing room.
'Nonsense, john.
The directors admit so indiscriminately.
I never thought of her walking.' At this point, mr Thornton came in, just before going to the mill.
But her heart gave thanks for him day and night; and she walked proudly among women for his sake.
'Do you know anything of Milton, Miss Hale?
His mother's eyes were bent on her work, at which she was now stitching away busily.
Couldn't you bring nurse here, mamma?
She did not often make calls; and when she did, it was in heavy state that she went through her duties.
You could go on there while I am at mrs Hale's.'
Too crowded, that is the worst.
She made all these reflections as she was talking in her stately way to mrs Hale, and uttering all the stereotyped commonplaces that most people can find to say with their senses blindfolded.
'Yes; but somehow,' said Fanny, lowering her voice, 'mamma has never been to London herself, and can't understand my longing.
All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
But in comment, in reference, in description, in every development of his story, he has a choice of words, a "way of putting things" which is as inevitably his own vintage as, once tasted, it becomes the private vintage of the connoisseur.
Like every artist worth consideration, he had no recipe.
Let us take a sample or two of "Saki, nineteen eleven."
While we were being funny, as planned, with collar studs and hot water bottles, he was being much funnier with werwolves and tigers.
It was in the WESTMINSTER GAZETTE that I discovered him (I like to remember now) almost as soon as he was discoverable.
It may have been my uncertainty (which still persists) whether he called himself Sayki, Sahki or Sakki which made me thus ungenerous of his name, or it may have been the feeling that the others were not worthy of him; but how refreshing it was when some intellectually blown up stranger said "Do you ever read Saki?" to reply, with the same pronunciation and even greater condescension: "Saki!
There are dearly loved books of which we babble to a neighbour at dinner, insisting that she shall share our delight in them; and there are books, equally dear to us, of which we say nothing, fearing lest the praise of others should cheapen the glory of our discovery.
He has been my favourite author for years!"
james', I was not too proud to take some slight but pitying interest in men of other colleges.
The books of "Saki" were, for me at least, in the second class.
"Locate" is the pleasant word here.
The secret of our favourite restaurant, to take a case, is guarded jealously from all but a few intimates; the secret, to take a contrary case, of our infallible remedy for seasickness is thrust upon every traveller we meet, even if he be no more than a casual acquaintance about to cross the Serpentine. So with our books.
Well, I discovered him, but only to the few, the favoured, did I speak of him.
I do not think that he has that "mastery of the CONTE"--in this book at least-which some have claimed for him. Such mastery infers a passion for tidiness which was not in the boyish Saki's equipment.
It may have been so; but, fortunately, our efforts to be funny in the Saki manner have not survived to prove it.
The unusual name of a freshman up at WESTMINSTER attracted my attention; I read what he had to say; and it was only by reciting rapidly with closed eyes the names of our own famous alumni, beginning confidently with Barrie and ending, now very doubtfully, with myself, that I was able to preserve my equanimity.
In our envy we may have wondered sometimes if it were not much easier to be funny with tigers than with collar studs; if Saki's careless cruelty, that strange boyish insensitiveness of his, did not give him an unfair start in the pursuit of laughter.
What is Saki's manner, what his magic talisman?
Nor in his dialogue, delightful as it often is, funny as it nearly always is, is he the supreme master; too much does it become monologue judiciously fed, one character giving and the other taking.
A strange exotic creature, this Saki, to us many others who were trying to do it too.
For we were so domestic, he so terrifyingly cosmopolitan.
Still more satisfying, in the story of the man who was tattooed "from collar bone to waist line with a glowing representation of the Fall of Icarus," is the word "privilege":
For more information, or to volunteer, please visit librivox dot org.
In both of them Clovis exercises, needlessly, his titular right of entry, but he can be removed without damage, leaving Saki at his best and most characteristic, save that he shows here, in addition to his own shining qualities, a compactness and a finish which he did not always achieve.
The suborners of men are the makers of matches, which are commonly friends.
And so, farewell!
After playing, when the game is done, they refresh themselves before a clear fire, and change their shirts; and very willingly they make all good cheer, but most merrily those that have gained.
The cords of the rackets are made of the guts of sheep or goats.
The monk then said, What do you think in your conscience is meant and signified by this riddle?
It is the style of the prophet Merlin.
The globe terrestrial is the tennis ball.
A prophetical Riddle.
No sooner was this enigmatical monument read over, but Gargantua, fetching a very deep sigh, said unto those that stood by, It is not now only, I perceive, that people called to the faith of the gospel, and convinced with the certainty of evangelical truths, are persecuted.
The waters are the heats that the players take till they sweat again.
The shopman at the poulterer's, from whom he had inquired the night before, had told him that letters were to be put into post boxes, and from there they were conveyed over the whole earth in mail troikas by drunken post boys and to the sound of bells.
The frost crackled, his grandfather crackled, and as they both did, Vanka did the same.
Dear Grandpapa, for Heaven's sake, take me away from here, home to our village, I can't bear this any more...
He waited till the master and mistress and the assistants had gone out to an early church service, to procure from his employer's cupboard a small phial of ink and a penholder with a rusty nib; then, spreading a crumpled sheet of paper in front of him, he began to write.
He remembered that his grandfather always went to the forest for the Christmas tree, and took his grandson with him.
Ah, short tailed devil!"
His grandfather could not help shouting:
Vanka sighs, dips his pen in the ink, and continues to write:
I have no mamma or papa, you are all I have."
Dear Grandpapa, I can't bear this any more, it'll kill me...
And in the meat shops there are woodcocks, partridges, and hares, but who shot them or where they come from, the shopman won't say.
The women take a pinch of snuff, and sneeze.
"Off with it, it will freeze to your nose!"
As for tea or sour cabbage soup, the master and the mistress themselves guzzle that. They make me sleep in the vestibule, and when their brat cries, I don't sleep at all, but have to rock the cradle.
He thought a little, dipped the pen into the ink, and wrote the address:
I send greetings to Aliona, to one eyed Tegor, and the coachman, and don't let any one have my mouth organ.
When Pelagueya died, they placed the orphan Vanka in the kitchen with his grandfather, and from the kitchen he was sent to Moscow to Aliakhin, the shoemaker.
The young fir trees, wrapt in hoar frost, stood motionless, waiting for which of them would die. Suddenly a hare springing from somewhere would dart over the snowdrift...
Kashtanka sneezes, twitches her nose, and walks away offended.
When little Vanka's mother, Pelagueya, was still alive, and was servant woman in the house, Olga Ignatyevna used to stuff him with sugar candy, and, having nothing to do, taught him to read, write, count up to one hundred, and even to dance the quadrille.
All day he slept in the servants' kitchen or trifled with the cooks.
I bow to the ground to you, and will pray to God for ever and ever, take me from here or I shall die..."
"Dear Grandfather Konstantin Makarych," he wrote, "I am writing you a letter.
Nine year old Vanka Zhukov, who had been apprentice to the shoemaker Aliakhin for three months, did not go to bed the night before Christmas.
Food there is none; in the morning it's bread, at dinner gruel, and in the evening bread again.
And there was one hook which would catch a sheat fish weighing a pound.
The assistants tease me, send me to the tavern for vodka, make me steal the master's cucumbers, and the master beats me with whatever is handy.
Before, however, deciding to make the first letter, he looked furtively at the door and at the window, glanced several times at the sombre ikon, on either side of which stretched shelves full of lasts, and heaved a heart rending sigh.
Ask the young lady, Olga Ignatyevna, for it, say it's for Vanka."
The young lady, Olga Ignatyevna, Vanka's great friend, busied herself most about it.
Beneath his deference and humbleness was hid the most inquisitorial maliciousness.
The old man goes into indescribable ecstasies, breaks into loud laughter, and cries:
Vanka folded his sheet of paper in four, and put it into an envelope purchased the night before for a kopek.
When the tree was down, his grandfather dragged it to the master's house, and there they set about decorating it.
"Catch it, catch it, catch it!
"Won't we take some snuff?" he asks, holding out his snuff box to the women.
More than once they had nearly broken his hind legs, twice he had been hung up, every week he was nearly flogged to death, but he always recovered.
Have pity on a poor orphan, for here they beat me, and I am frightfully hungry, and so sad that I can't tell you, I cry all the time.
What happy times!
My life is a misfortune, worse than any dog's...
Vanka ran to the first post box and slipped his precious letter into the slit.
No one knew better than he how to sneak up and take a bite at a leg, or slip into the larder or steal a muzhik's chicken.
An hour afterwards, lulled by hope, he was sleeping soundly.
"Dear Grandpapa, and when the masters give a Christmas tree, take a golden walnut and hide it in my green box.
VANKA
Vanka sighed convulsively, and again stared at the window.
She did not swoon or utter a cry.
No; certainly not.
"I don't know; but all our life together has been in the forest, and I'm just a little afraid of the world."
She shall have everything she wants."
"Prince Coronel will be staying here," said the Princess.
"What do you mean?"
"I say," said Coronel, as they went up the grand staircase, "I am not a Prince, you know.
"Ah, Countess, I thought we should find you together," said Hyacinth archly.
"Including Prince Udo," smiled Hyacinth.
A different thing, Countess, from when I last saw him.
I will announce your decision to the Princess.
"Yes, but of course the chance might come again.
If any of the servants at the Palace were surprised to see Coronel, they did not show it.
"He's the most desperate lover in Araby.
"It's a secret," he added.
So just for fun let's think of something to pay her out."
Before Udo had completely cleared his mind of his dragon, the Princess and Coronel were upon them.
I must ask you not to refer to it.
That's what I'm wondering.
And she evidently adored him.
"I rode," said Coronel.
She was looking over his shoulder at something behind him.
He tried to show that he was not in the least frightened.
It was more than Udo did.
No, don't take my arm-we can talk quite well like this."
We can do what we like, and it doesn't matter if it doesn't come off.
After all, again, why not marry the Countess?
Meanwhile Udo, of course, blundered along gaily.
I hope that nothing will happen to you on the way."
But it is quite time we got back to Belvane; we have left her alone too long.
Coronel, this is Countess Belvane, a very dear and faithful friend of mine. Prince Udo, of course, you know.
"Why, whoever is this?" she said, getting to her feet.
("What has happened to the child?" thought Belvane.
They got up and wandered back along Wiggs's path, hand in hand.
Of course you're not.
If I marry the Countess----"
"Your approaching marriage," he said, "is the talk of Araby. Naturally I had to come here to see for myself what she was like.
What's the name of this one?"
"Well, you must please yourself, but you have compromised her severely with that story.
"But I don't mind what we do now," said Hyacinth happily.
Just now he was with her in her garden, telling her for the fifth time an extraordinarily dull story about an encounter of his with a dragon, apparently in its dotage, to which Belvane was listening with an interest which surprised even the narrator.
"That's what makes it so jolly.
"Well, something happened on the way here.
After all, that was their business.
"I am returning to Araby this afternoon," said Udo stiffly.
"It wasn't in the least compromising," protested Udo indignantly.
"Will he?
"We aren't exactly, Princess-I mean----What are you doing here, Coronel?--I didn't know, Princess, that you---- The Countess and I were just having a little-I was just telling her what you said about-How did you get here, Coronel?"
"Don't be a fool, Coronel.
There'll be much to see about."
Well, let's forget about it. And now tell me, how do you like Euralia?"
Coronel exchanged a glance with Hyacinth.
If he stayed in Euralia as adviser-more than adviser she guessed-to Hyacinth, her own position would not be in much doubt. And as for the King, it might be months before he came back, and when he did come would he remember her?
Lovely flowers, aren't they?
"That's a splendid idea.
He stopped suddenly at the expression on Belvane's face.
I think one of the things which made Belvane so remarkable was that she was never afraid of remaining silent when she was not quite sure what to say.
"I am sorry, Udo," said Coronel meekly; "we seem to have made a mistake.
Udo is one of my oldest friends"--he turned and clapped that bewildered Highness on the back-"aren't you, Udo? and I can think of no one more suitable in every way." He bowed again, and turned back to the Prince.
"I haven't the slightest intention-what do you keep clinging to my arm like this for?
"My father will be so excited when he hears," said Hyacinth.
We will be her most humble obedient servants.
Coronel put his arm in Udo's and walked him up and down the flagged path.
Wiggs and I have often talked about it together."
"All right, we won't hurt her, we'll humour her.
"But I didn't know that you----"
"My dear, I am a king among men to day, and you are my queen, but that's in our own special country of two."
She did not plead the vapours or the megrims.
"Say something, Udo," prompted Coronel.
"My dear Udo, I'm so delighted to see you again.
"You know, of course, that his Majesty comes back to morrow with all his army."
Don't say I have deceived you."
After all, what you bore with such patience and dignity once, you can bear again."
But I get no assistance from Roger at this point; he pretends that he has a mind far above the gossip of the lower orders.
I haven't the slightest intention of marrying her."
"That subject is distasteful to me.
It will annoy your father, but one can't please everybody.
Let me see, that must have been just the day before he arrived in Euralia.
"I will be very close to you always, Hyacinth."
"I'm enjoying this," he seemed to say.
You see he doesn't know yet about our little present to the Countess."
"If you are so particular," said Hyacinth, with a smile, "Father will make you a proper Prince directly he comes back."
"You ought to make the Palace garden look beautiful between you."
This wanted thinking out.
Hyacinth nodded.
Coronel shook him solemnly by the hand.
"Oh, I'm so glad," said Hyacinth.
"I'm almost afraid to leave the forest," said Hyacinth, "in case something happens."
Udo, who was about to enter the Palace, turned round with a startled look.
Coronel was left alone with the most desperate lover in Araby.
My dear Udo, she's charming; I congratulate you."
"As a matter of fact I was just telling her about that dragon I killed in Araby last year."
"There's no holding Udo once he begins," volunteered Coronel.
"Be very close, Coronel," she whispered, and then they walked out together.
The Countess-what was wrong with her, after all?
Oh, I can see myself enjoying this."
"Your precious Countess, whom you expect me to marry."
"Once more, I am not going to marry her."
She's clever, you know; and I should never feel quite safe if she were my enemy. . . .
Personally, I can't make out what she sees in you.
UDO BEHAVES LIKE A GENTLEMAN
But he had stayed on, and-well, decidedly she was beautiful-perhaps he had paid rather too much attention to that.
Of course that was not surprising; the question was, was it fair to disappoint one who had, perhaps, some little grounds for----? After all, he had been no more gallant than was customary from a Prince and a gentleman to a beautiful woman.
What is it?"
"She couldn't do anything.
"And hearing that there was to be a wedding," added Coronel----
You never told me."
Poor innocent girl.
"What should happen?"
"Then perhaps I had better see that everything is ready in the Palace," she said, "if your Royal Highness will excuse me." And with a curtsey she was gone.
"I should have thought it was quite obvious," said Udo with dignity. "Well, Coronel, I think perhaps you are right and that it's my duty to marry her."
It was absurd to suppose there was anything in Coronel's nonsense, but one never knew.
"How very unkind of her.
Whatever his feelings for the Countess, he was not going to be rushed into a marriage.
Of course he ought to have left Euralia long ago.
"And now," said the Prince, "tell me what you are doing here."
"Well," she announced, "I must be going in, too.
Udo dropped undecidedly into a seat.
Coronel made a deep bow to the astonished Belvane.
By the by, how did that happen?
"Now, understand clearly, Coronel, I'm not in the least frightened by the Countess."
But you must admit we found you in a very compromising position."
"I happen to know that the King of Euralia-however, she's chosen you, it seems.
Udo evidently hadn't thought of this.
"Then why have you told everybody that you are going to?"
"You'll be a very lucky man," put in Coronel.
"We find that we have really known each other a very long time," explained Hyacinth.
And he had certainly neglected the Princess a little.
"She seems fond of flowers," said Coronel.
"She may have the throne and Father and Udo, and-and anything else she can get, and I shan't mind a bit.
Belvane made up her mind.
"I feel I don't want to hurt anybody to day."
Pity him, you lovers.
She took unflinching what must have been the biggest shock in her life.
"Let me present to you my friend, the Duke Coronel.
"Your humble servant," he said.
But to be Queen of Araby was no mean thing.
"My dear Udo, what a speech for a lover!
"And now," said Coronel, "we'd better decide what to do."
"Shall we tell him?" said Coronel, with a smile at Hyacinth.
The poor woman had misunderstood him, and she should not be disappointed.
"I congratulate your Royal Highness.
"Aha!
"There are certain state reasons," he said with dignity, "why that story has been allowed to get about."
"I have one."
The King laughed good humouredly.
Let me see, there's that seven headed bull; he's getting a little old now, but he was good enough for the last one.
I have no wish to----"
You invited him here?
"But as you know so much, you may as well know all.
"I don't want a suitor," said Hyacinth softly.
"Why?"
Poor little Hyacinth left all alone; but there! she had had the Countess Belvane, a woman of great experience, to help her.
"Now, Father," said Hyacinth later on, when Merriwig had changed his clothes and refreshed himself, "you've got to tell me all about it.
I can hardly believe it's really over."
How good to see Hyacinth again!
"Of course," said Hyacinth, deciding at once that it would not matter if she only told Coronel.
"Do tell me, did the King of Barodia apologise?"
He took a step forward and addressed his troops.
Upon what quest did you send him?"
Merriwig was in an awkward position.
I bid you all now return to your homes, and I hope that you will find as warm a welcome there as I have found in mine." Here he turned and embraced his daughter again; and if his eye travelled over her shoulder in the direction of Belvane's garden, it is a small matter, and one for which the architect of the castle, no doubt, was principally to blame.
It happened like this." Once more he told the story of his midnight visit, and of the King's letter to him.
As the towers of the castle came in sight, Merriwig drew a deep breath of happiness.
There, there!" He patted her again, as though it were she and not himself who was in danger of breaking down.
Why didn't I think of him?
"These are matters for men to discuss." But Hyacinth would know quite well why she had been sent out, and would certainly tell Coronel the truth of the matter afterwards.
Indeed, the subject has been very near my thoughts lately.
"That," said Coronel simply, "is much more surprising."
My own little girl!"
Hyacinth looked round at Coronel as if appealing for his support.
He waited nervously, wondering if Hyacinth would realise that "all" was meant to include more particularly Belvane.
He liked the look of Coronel, he liked his manner, and he saw at once that he knew a good story-when he heard one.
"Then I shall say, 'Nothing much; only Coronel.' And such a clever!"
I know his father had hopes in that direction."
Now I wonder if I can guess who she is. What do you say to the Princess Elvira of Tregong?
Life would be lonely in Euralia then, unless---- Should he risk it?
See, I have brought these home for you."
While spying out the land in the early days of the invasion, he had been discovered by the Chief Armourer of Barodia at full length on the wet grass searching for tracks.
He gazed at each remembered landmark of his own beloved country, his heart overflowing with thankfulness.
"Wait till he has seen them, my dear," said Merriwig with a chuckle.
She had wanted Coronel to wait with her, but he had refused.
We might----"
"I knew he'd love it," put in Hyacinth.
"Does that surprise your Majesty?"
"He's-he's-well, he's---- Here he is, Father." She ran up to him impulsively as he came in at the door.
It's as well," he added with a disarming smile, "that you cannot ask for the whiskers of the King of Barodia.
"And who might Coronel be?" said the King, rather sternly.
Should he risk it?
Hyacinth put out her hand, and Coronel pressed it encouragingly.
To be exact, there were only four hundred and ninety nine men.
Hyacinth had felt this coming.
"Yes, please, Father."
Nothing much, I suppose?' then you can say----"
"What?
"Before I explain myself, your Majesty," he said, "may I congratulate your Majesty on your wonderful victory over the Barodians?
In a little while Hyacinth and Coronel were seated eagerly at his feet, and he was telling once more the great story of his adventures.
Handkerchiefs fluttered to them from the walls; trumpets were blown; hounds bayed.
"When a man has just come back from a successful campaign, he doesn't want to find a surprise like this waiting for him.
"I haven't sent him away at all yet," she said; "he's only just come. He's been very kind to me, and I'm sure you'll love him."
"Oh, Coronel, you're just in time; do tell Father who you are."
Henry Smallnose, a bowman of considerable promise, had been left behind in the enemy's country, the one casualty of war.
"His Royal Highness," put in Coronel, "has given his affections to another."
"It isn't Udo, I'm afraid, Father.
"What am I going to do with them, Father?
Henry, having caught a glimpse of the Chief Armourer's daughter, had accepted without any false pride, and had frequently dropped in to supper thereafter.
No matter, dear, we can easily find you plenty more suitors.
It's all over," said Merriwig heartily.
"I don't think it hurt him very much, my dear.
"Well, then, listen."
"It's rather serious, but it's rather nice.
Perhaps that bull I was speaking of---- By the way, who is he?"
So far as is known, this was her only work, but she built up some reputation on it, and Belvane, who was a good judge, had a high opinion of her genius.
Anyhow, I'll give you an hour alone together first."
"Isn't that a little unkind now that the poor man's dead?"
"Well, no, it doesn't.
"Well, we'll arrange something," said Merriwig, looking pleased. "Perhaps your Prince Udo would care to be a competitor too."
"My dear, this is indeed news.
Merriwig unwrapped the paper, and disclosed a couple of ginger whiskers, neatly tied up with blue ribbon.
To Hyacinth he seemed the dearest of fathers and the most wonderful of kings.
"My dear child," said Merriwig as he patted her soothingly.
But of course I am longing to hear the full story from your Majesty's own lips.
Coronel bowed profoundly to the King.
He took a step towards her.
"I love it."
I can't plant them in the garden."
Home again!
And she, I understand, wishes to marry you."
"There, there!
Hyacinth and Merriwig went into the Palace.
She was waiting for him at the gates of the castle.
Hyacinth drew a stool up to her father's chair and sat down very close to him.
I think I'll go for a walk in the forest.
It's Coronel."
"Those are just a few of the little adventures that happen in war time." He turned to Coronel.
"I thought we might run them up the flagstaff, as we did in Barodia."
Had she lived in modern times she would have expected the question, "What is his income?" A man must prove his worth in some way.
Truly an excellent young man.
An excellent arrangement, my dear."
Now that the war was over, he found that he could not tear himself away. With King Merriwig's permission he was settling in Barodia, and with the Chief Armourer's permission he was starting on his new life as a married man.
And by and by the moment came of which Coronel had spoken.
So that's the secret.
Let me see, there were six or seven Princes who came about it only the other day. I sent them off on adventures of some kind, but-dear me, yes, they ought to have been back by now.
"Can you keep a secret?" he asked mysteriously.
"We must offer the good news to him gradually," he said.
"It's just the sort of story that Coronel would love.
"So you like it," said Merriwig, trying to look modest.
"No, it's not the Princess Elvira," said Hyacinth, a little nervously.
"There, you can see the place where Henry Smallnose's arrow bent it. By the way," he added, "Henry is marrying and settling down in Barodia.
Merriwig looked round him to see that there were no eavesdroppers.
It's your old father come back again.
"Of course," he said, "you'll have to win her."
Nothing much, I suppose?"
He produced from his pocket a small packet in tissue paper.
"No, Father," said Hyacinth, with a little smile.
"Leave us, my child," he would say.
Is it a fact that your Majesty made his way at dead of night to the King of Barodia's own tent and challenged him to mortal combat and slew him?" There was an eagerness, very winning, in his eyes as he asked it; he seemed to be envying the King such an adventure-an adventure after his own heart.
Merriwig leant forward with eagerness.
Or shall I stay here, in the Countess's garden, and amuse myself with Udo?
I suppose you haven't heard anything of them?"
The cavalcade drew up in front of the castle.
From the little I have gathered outside, it is the most remarkable victory that has ever occurred.
Whatever can it be?"
"There, there, my child.
Merriwig, however, was not so sure of that.
"Anything your Majesty sets me to do.
He came to stay with you and he never----"
CHAPTER twenty
Tell me all about it.
Just think-we don't even know why the war is over-he must be longing to tell you that.
"Udo, of course.
"Well, I'll be out of the way somewhere.
We'll arrange a little competition, and let them know in the neighbouring countries; there'll be no lack of candidates.
Down the steps came Hyacinth, all blue and gold, and flung herself into her father's arms.
"Well, well," said the King at the end of it, when he had received their tribute of admiration.
"Father!"
"Oh, how exciting!
He wondered for a moment whether to order his daughter out of the room.
"Oh, I have my ideas," said Coronel.
They were beautifully dressed, and their mother was tending and watching them.
dr Price was behind them.
"Where?"
"That is my house, on the right," he said.
Did you notice how little the Morgesons ate?"
As we passed through the town, Cousin Charles pointed to the Academy, which stood at the head of a green.
Mother tried in vain to look hard hearted, and to persuade that it was good for me, but she lost her appetite, with the thought of losing me, which the mention of dr Price brought home.
"You shall see."
"And the glass is pinned up with nice yellow paper; and here is a damask napkin fastened to the wall behind the washstand.
We drove into the yard, and a woman came out on the piazza to receive us.
I offered mother the warm water, and appropriated the biscuits.
"What would Temperance and Hepsey say to this?"
In the morning, she said, we should see her three children. She never left them, she was so afraid of their being ill, also telling mother that she would do all in her power to make my stay in Rosville pleasant and profitable.
Locke Morgeson sounded familiarly, he said; a member of his mother's family named Somers had married a gentleman of that name.
He encouraged mother not to be afraid, looking keenly at me.
"Mother," I said afterward, "I am afraid I am an animal.
Edward was delighted with their behavior, and for the first time I saw his father smile on him.
"Here, in this room, and in you."
He directed mother's attention to the portraits of his children, explaining them, while I went to a table between the windows to examine the green and white sprays of some delicate flower I had never before seen.
The western breeze, which blew in our faces, had an earthy scent, with fluctuating streams of odors from trees and flowers.
The viands were as pretty as the dishes, the lamb chops were fragile; the bread was delicious, but cut in transparent slices, and the butter pat was nearly stamped through with its bouquet of flowers.
I have already spoken to him about receiving a new pupil."
"Now," said mother, when we came away, "think how much greater your advantages are than mine have ever been.
From its open sides I looked out on a tranquil, agreeable landscape; there was nothing saline in the atmosphere.
This was all the feast except sponge cake, which felt like muslin in the fingers; I could have squeezed the whole of it into my mouth.
She went to Boston that Friday afternoon, anxious to get safely home with Veronica.
CHAPTER fourteen.
I was glad when Cousin Charles came in, looking at his watch.
I replied we knew that grandfather had married a Rachel Somers.
I struck out my hands through the palpable darkness, to find the bed without disturbing mother, whose soul was calmly threading the labyrinth of sleep.
And everything stands on a mat.
I have no wish that way.
"I noticed how elegant their table appointments were, and I shall buy new china in Boston to morrow.
The oldest was eight years, the youngest three months.
Cousin Alice gave us descriptions of their tastes and habits, dwelling with emphasis on those of the baby.
His face was serene, dark, and delicate, but to look at it made me shiver.
I looked back at him.
"Yes," I said huskily, for the dry biscuit choked me.
"These are fine brutes," he said, not taking his eyes from them; "but they are not equal to my mare, Nell.
We will call on dr Price, for you to see the kind of master Cassandra will have.
Rosville was larger and handsomer than Surrey.
Mother came toward us, pleading fatigue as an excuse for retiring, and Cousin Charles called Cousin Alice, who went with us to our room.
I finished Childe Harold early in the morning, though, and went down to breakfast, longing to be a wreck!
"I hear Edward," said Alice.
"Oh!" exclaimed mother, grasping my arm.
"By to morrow these little white bells will be dead."
"How much worse is the mare, cousin Charles?"
Still hungry, I observed that Cousin Charles and Alice had finished; and though she shook her spoon in the cup, feigning to continue, and he snipped crumbs in his plate, I felt constrained to end my repast.
I cried when I went up to my room, for I found a present there-a beautiful workbox, and in it was a small Bible with my name and hers written on the fly leaf in large print like, but tremulous letters.
"I think they would grumble, and admire.
She directed us where to find the apparel she had nicely smoothed and folded; took off the handsome counterpane, and the pillows trimmed with lace, putting others of a plainer make in their places; shook down the window curtains; asked us if we would have anything more, and quietly disappeared.
Look at this," showing her the tassels of the inner window curtains done up in little bags.
"You would, would you?" he said, taking out the whip, as the horses recoiled from a man who lay by the roadside, leaping so high that the harness seemed rattling from their backs.
Now that I think of it, she was always making up some nice dish; tell her I remember it, will you?"
But her countenance fell when she heard that dr Price had been a Unitarian minister, and that there was no Congregational church in Rosville.
Cousin Alice gave unremitting attention to Edward, who ate as little as the rest.
I think also that the boiled eggs were smaller than any I had seen.
"It is probably the chamber for visitors.
"Cassy, mrs Morgeson is an excellent housekeeper."
"Send off the babies, Alice, and ring the bell for breakfast."
Its fragrance was intoxicating.
I looked up at him.
Morning prayers were over, and the scholars, some sixty boys and girls, were coming downstairs from the hall, to go into the rooms, each side of a great door.
"What a contrast!" I said.
I wish Hepsey would not load our table as she does."
The walls were covered with dark red velvet paper, the furniture was dark, the mantel and table tops were black marble, and the vases and candelabra were bronze.
A servant came in for our bonnets and baskets. Cousin Alice begged us to take tea at once.
How miserable was my youth! It is too late for me to make any attempt at cultivation.
Flower gardens, shrubbery, and trees were scattered everywhere.
"Good night."
She was a dignified, kind looking woman, who asked me a few questions in such a pleasant, direct manner that I frankly told her I was eighteen years old, very ignorant, and averse from learning; but I did not speak loud enough for anybody beside herself to hear.
It was Byron, and turning over the leaves till I came to Don Juan, I read it through, and began Childe Harold, but the candle expired.
I ate every one, undressing meanwhile, and surveying the apartment.
It was sunset when we arrived in Rosville, and found mr Morgeson waiting for us with his carriage at the station.
Presently a girl, the same who had taken our bonnets, came in with a pitcher of warm water and a plate of soda biscuit.
I drew from her conversation the opinion that she had a tendency to the rearing of children.
She sent out the two youngest, put little Edward in his chair, and breakfast began.
As a mother, she could appreciate her anxiety and sadness in leaving me.
He stopped when he saw us, an introduction took place, and he inquired for dr Snell, as an old college friend.
"It will hardly bear touching," he said.
"And between you and me?"
Alice is afraid of her; but I hope that you, Cassandra, will ride with me sometimes when I drive her."
Pretty houses stood round it, and streets branched from it in all directions.
We parted with many a kiss and shake of the hand and last words.
He then proposed our going to Miss Prior, the lady who had charge of the girls' department, and we followed him to her school room.
"mrs Morgeson," said Charles, "the horses will be ready to take you round Rosville.
Distant, indifferent, and speculative as the eyes were, a ray of fire shot into them occasionally, which made her gaze powerful and concentrated.
A smile crept into her blue eye, as she said: "My hearing him, or not, would make no difference, since God could hear and answer."
Hepsey was stationed by the bannock, knife in hand, to serve it.
I meditated how I could best amuse myself, where I should go, and what I should do, when Veronica, whom I had forgotten, interrupted my thoughts.
It was changed again by Temperance coming with lights.
"I am afraid I make an idol of him, Cassy."
I heard the wonted sound of the banging of doors.
"By the way, you must take lessons in Milford; I wish you would learn to sing." I acquiesced, but I had no wish to learn to play.
I promised him to go, wondering whether I should meet an ancient beau, Joe Bacon.
I looked round the room; nothing had been added to it, except red damask curtains, which were out of keeping with the old chintz covers.
Arthur played round the chair of mother, who looked happy and forgetful. After Temperance had rearranged the table for father's supper we were quiet.
Her hand was pressed against her breast, as if she were repressing an inward voice which claimed her attention.
But he has not been here long; they are all so when they first come."
"Call her when supper is ready," replied mother, who asked me to come into the bedroom where Arthur was sleeping.
The plenty around me, the ease and independence, gave me a delightful sense of comfort.
"Are you unhappy because you love him so well, mother, and feel that you must make expiation?"
Hepsey, rubbing her fingers against her thumb, remarked that she hoped learning had not taken away my appetite.
I was within a month of sixteen, and Veronica was in her thirteenth year; but she looked as old as I did. She carefully prepared her toast with milk and butter, and ate it in silence.
"Cassandra," she spoke with haste, "did you experience any shadow of a change during the revival at Barmouth?"
As soon as they began their supper, Veronica asked Temperance how the fish tasted.
"Charles can eat it," Verry said with a sigh.
The dishes were odd, some of china, some of delf, and were continually moved out of their places, for we helped ourselves, although Temperance stayed in the room, ostensibly as a waiter.
I pondered over what father had said; he had perceived something in me which I was not aware of.
"Verry, you drive me wild.
"How is the bannock?"
Presently Temperance came in with Charles, bringing fresh plates.
"Mother," she said, "eating toast does not make me better tempered; I feel evil still.
"But I never heard a word of grand'ther's prayers.
She changed the subject.
As she passed she gave me a dark look.
"Temperance, is that pound cake, or sponge?"
She comprehended him, and, giving her head a slight toss, told Verry to go and play on the piano.
"Oh yes, and where's Veronica?"
"Excellent.
"Middling."
Say so to my own child?"
I must, of course, be left to myself in many things; but he hoped that I would confide in him, if I did not ask his advice.
"Oh, Verry," said mother, "not quite so bad; you are too hard upon yourself."
She set the plate down, and gravely shook hands with me, saying she had concluded to live entirely on toast, but supposed I would eat all sorts of food, as usual.
Though the tall brass lamps glittered like gold, their circle of light was small; the corners of the room were obscure.
Is it best to cook more, mrs Morgeson, now that Cassandra has come?"
"Grand'ther does not like me; I never pleased him."
Soon after father came, and Hepsey brought in his hot supper; while he was eating it, Grandfather john Morgeson bustled in.
When we rode over the brow of the hill within a mile of Surrey, and I saw the crescent shaped village, and the tall chimneys of our house on its outer edge, instead of my heart leaping for joy, as I had expected, a sudden indifference filled it.
She had grown tall; her face was still long and narrow, but prettier, and her large, dark eyes had a slight cast, which gave her face an indescribable expression.
She then gave him a large slice of the cake.
mr Park, entering, retreated into one, and mother was obliged to forego the pleasure of undressing Arthur; so she sent him off with Temperance and Charles, whose duty it was to rock the cradle as long as his babyship required.
A very strong relation of reserve generally existed between parent and child, instead of a confidential one, and the child was apt to discover that reserve on the part of the parent was not superiority, but cowardice, or indifference.
Veronica, who had been silently observing her, rose from the sofa, picked up the comb, and fastened her hair, without speaking.
I took one of the brass lamps, proposing to go to bed.
I could never perform mechanically what I heard now from Verry.
As we began our meal, Veronica came in from the kitchen, with a plate of toasted crackers.
Grandfather pursed up his mouth, and turned toward mother, as if he would like to say: "You understand bringing up children, don't you?"
He asked me if I would take pains to make myself an accomplished one also?
Mother retired; Verry still played.
When I entered the house, and saw mother in her old place, her surroundings unaltered, I suffered a disappointment. I had not had the power of transferring the atmosphere of my year's misery to Surrey.
We left Veronica at the table, and mother resumed her conversation with me in a corner of the room.
"Should I be glad?
Though the fire had gone out, the lamps winked brightly, and father, moving his cigar to the other side of his mouth, changed his regards from one lamp to the other, and said he thought I was growing to be an attractive girl.
Verry turned her face to the wall and said no more; but she had started a less pleasant train of thought.
Were you glad to see Cassy home again?"
"Let it not be so with us," was his conclusion.
Temperance brought Arthur to the table half asleep, but he roused when she drummed on his plate with a spoon.
"Pound."
CHAPTER eleven.
It occurred to her that she, also, had been no favorite of his.
"No more than the baby here did."
"Don't you wish to see Arthur?" inquired mother; "he is getting his double teeth."
He threw away the stump of his cigar, and went to fasten the hall door.
Leaning her head against her chair, she had quite pushed out her comb, her hair dropped on her shoulder, and looked like a brown, coiled serpent.
She looked astonished, then reflective.
Can you forget you said such a thing?"
You know," turning to me, "that my temper is worse than ever; it is like a tiger's."
"Is it salt?"
I shut my eyes, but could not close my ears to the sound of the spadeful of sand which fell on the coffin.
It was the custom, and father took his hat off to thank his friends for their sympathy and attention.
She discussed the subject of the mourning with the Morgesons.
It was put under rigorous funeral law, and inspected from garret to cellar.
"How could you have done this?"
As the coffin was taken out to the hearse, my heart twisted and palpitated, as if a command had been laid upon it to follow, and not leave her.
A discourse followed, which was calculated to harrow the feelings to the utmost.
When the hearse moved down the street, father, Arthur, and I were called, and assisted in our own chaise, as if we were helpless; the reins were put in father's hands, and the horse was led behind the hearse.
"Yes."
A cat ran out of a house, and scampered across the way; Arthur laughed, and father jumped nervously at the sound of his laugh.
The duties of friendship and tradition had been fulfilled; the neighbors had gone home to their avocations.
The procession moved down the path again.
Arthur's feelings were played upon also.
The graveyard was a mile outside the village-a sandy plain where a few stunted pines transplanted from the woods near it struggled to keep alive.
I was tracing the shape of one of those green patches when I felt father's arm tremble.
I wished it to drop and blot out the vague nothings under it.
I could have made it myself for half the price.
But I was imprisoned in the cage of Life-the Keeper would not let me go; her he had let loose.
His lips moved, but no words were audible.
Her course was taken for granted; mine was imposed upon me. I remonstrated with Temperance, but she replied that it was all well meant, and always done.
Those passages in the Bible which contain the beautifully poetic images relating to the going of man to his long home were read, and to my ear they seemed to fall on the coffin in dull strife with its inmate, who mutely contradicted them.
"no"
Temperance told me that the mild and indifferent mourners were fond of good victuals, and she thought their hearts were lighter than their stomachs when they went away.
The landing stair was full of people.
I am going to put on my bonnet.
Mother hated it, too, for she had never worn out the garments made for Grand'ther Warren.
"Keep it; but don't work on it any more." And I put it away.
In the passage I heard a knocking from Veronica's room, and crossed to learn what she wanted.
Somebody handed me gloves; my bonnet was tied, a handkerchief given to me, and the door opened.
The matter is often subservient to the manner.
"You think I can go through with it, then?"
Veronica refused to wear the bonnet and veil and the required bombazine.
Every child in Surrey was allowed to come in, to look at the dead, with the idle curiosity of childhood.
CHAPTER thirty four.
But what a picture she had attempted to make!
He wept often, confiding to me his grief and his plans for the future.
Somebody must bury the dead.
"Good; I can walk through it once more."
We must leave her to the creatures Veronica had seen.
Bed time especially was their occasion. I was not allowed to undress alone.
At last the word was given, and the long procession began to move through the street, which was deserted.
We were still obliged to sit an intolerable while, till all present had passed before her for the last time.
"She's a bigger child than ever," Temperance remarked, "and must have her way."
"Because I have tried.
"It's a pity she isn't his dog; she might keep at his feet then.
She was wan and languid, but collected.
Arthur's hand was in mine; he stamped his feet firmly on the sand, as if to break the oppressive silence which no one seemed disposed to disturb.
It hung low over us.
Aunt Merce, when she saw me, put her hand on an empty chair, beside father, who sat by the coffin.
I looked upward, to discern the shadowy reflection behind the gray haze of cloud, where she might have paused a moment on her eternal journey to the eternal world of souls.
"Yes, the idea."
All made way for me with a silent respect.
We sat in state, to be condoled with and waited upon.
Veronica knew nothing of this.
I gave her the flacon of salts, which revived her; but I felt as father looked-stern, and anxious to escape the unprofitable trial.
Perhaps mother was always right about me too; she was against me."
She presided there and wrangled with Fanny, who seemed to have lost her capacity for doing anything steadily, except, as Temperance said, where father was concerned.
The kitchen was the focus of interest to him, for meals were prepared at all hours for comers and goers.
However, I was, in a measure, kept from myself during this interval.
Arthur began to cry so nervously, that some considerate friend took him out, and Aunt Merce wept so violently that she grew faint, and caught hold of me.
I acquiesced in all her arrangements, for she derived a simple comfort from these external tokens.
Go.
One day the eldest son went out hunting, and, when he got outside the town, up sprang a hare out of a bush, and he after it, and hither and thither, till the hare fled into a water mill, and the prince after it.
You will never tell me whither you go." The dragon replied: "Well, my dear old woman, I do go far." Then the old woman began to coax it: "And why do you go so far?
It captured me, too, in this way, but now I have no means of escape." Then he proceeded: "Listen well to what I am going to say to you.
I assure you, in God's name, that he is able to overcome the dragon, only go to morrow with him to see whether he will free us from this mischief which has destroyed so many people."
When he issued from the town, again up sprang a hare out of a bush, and the prince after it, and hither and thither, till the hare fled into the water mill.
The prince said to it: "Tell me now, where are my brothers?"
But it was not a hare, but a dragon, and it waited for the prince and devoured him.
The prince ordered them to come out one by one, and go whither each would, and stood himself at the door.
Then he left his home, and disguised himself; he put shepherd's boots to his feet, took a shepherd's staff in his hand, and went into the world.
But the prince shouted to his shepherd dogs: "Hold it!
When they were in the neighbourhood of the water mill, the prince halted his attendants, went inside, cut up the three wands, and struck the root with them, and the iron door opened at once.
Go home, my son, lest you follow them." Then he said to her: "Dear old woman, do you know what?
But when the afternoon heat came on, the dragon said: "Let me go, prince, that I may moisten my parched head in the lake, and may toss you to the sky." The prince replied: "Come, dragon, don't talk nonsense; if I had the emperor's daughter to kiss me on the forehead, I would toss you still higher." Thereupon the dragon suddenly left hold of him, and went off into the lake.
It kills and throttles many people." Hearing this, the prince was somewhat disturbed, and said to the old woman: "What shall we do now?
When several days had elapsed and the prince did not return home, people began to wonder why it was that he was not to be found.
Tell me where your strength is.
After the shepherd had thus obtained the dragon's head, twilight began to approach.
Whither do you go so far?
On going into the town he began to inquire who wanted a shepherd.
The shepherd was cheerful, more cheerful than ever, but the emperor's daughter was sad and shed tears.
The old woman replied: "God help you, my son!"
The next day the prince got ready again, and went with his sheep straight to the lake.
In the vault was a vast multitude of people.
Then the prince asked her: "Where, old woman, is my hare?" She replied: "My son, that was not a hare, but a dragon.
Then he went straight to the emperor.
Cut these three wands up from below, and strike with them upon their root; an iron door will immediately open into a large vault. In that vault are many people, old and young, rich and poor, small and great, wives and maidens, so that you could settle a populous empire; there, too, are your brothers." When the pigeon had told him all this, the prince immediately wrung its neck.
When the dragon came in, the old woman began to question it: "Where in God's name have you been?
Come out to single combat with me; let us measure ourselves once more, unless you're a woman!" The dragon replied: "I will, prince; now, now!" Erelong, there was the dragon! it was huge, it was terrible, it was disgusting! When it came out, they seized each other by the middle, and wrestled a summer's day till afternoon.
But the emperor sent two grooms after him to go stealthily and see what he did, and they placed themselves on a high hill whence they could have a good view.
Then he swung the dragon, and tossed it high into the air, and when it fell to the ground it burst into pieces.
The citizens told him that the emperor did.
When he arrived at the town, the whole town assembled as to see a wondrous sight because he had come, whereas previously no shepherd had been able to come from the lake.
The shepherd comforted her: "Lady sister, I pray you, do not weep, but do what I tell you.
He replied: "I do, illustrious crown!" Then the emperor engaged him, and began to inform and instruct him: "There is here a lake, and alongside of the lake very beautiful pasture, and when you call the sheep out, they go thither at once, and spread themselves round the lake; but whatever shepherd goes off there, that shepherd returns back no more.
But the prince did not choose to follow it, but went to find other game, saying to himself: "When I return I shall find you." After thus he went for a long time up and down the hill, but found nothing, and then returned to the water mill; but when he got there, there was only an old woman in the mill.
After he announced himself, the emperor admitted him into his presence, and asked him: "Do you wish to keep sheep?"
don't let it go!" and the dogs sprang up and after it, caught it, and soon tore it to pieces. But out of the boar flew a pigeon, and the prince loosed the falcon, and the falcon caught the pigeon and brought it into the prince's hands.
The prince invoked God in addressing her: "God help you, old woman!"
Doubtless my two brothers also have perished here." The old woman answered: "They have indeed; but there's no help for it.
But as it burst into pieces, out of it sprang a wild boar, and started to run away.
I know that you will be glad to liberate yourself from that pest." The old woman interrupted him: "How should I not?
Then the middle son went hunting, and as he issued from the town, a hare sprang out of a bush, and the prince after it, and hither and thither, till the hare fled into the water mill and the prince after it; but it was not a hare, but a dragon, which waited for and devoured him.
Ask it whither it goes and where its strength is; then kiss all that place where it tells you its strength is, as if from love, till you ascertain it, and afterward tell me when I come." Then the prince went off to the palace, and the old woman remained in the water mill.
"But," said he, "to morrow you must go with the shepherd to the lake and kiss him on the forehead." When she heard this she burst into tears and began to entreat her father.
He washed himself nicely, took the falcon on his shoulder, the hounds behind him, and the bagpipes under his arm, played as he went, drove the sheep, and proceeded to the emperor's palace, with the damsel at his side still in terror.
When, on the morrow, the day dawned and the sun came forth, up rose the shepherd, up rose the maiden too, to begin to prepare for going to the lake.
The dragon began to give an account in detail: "My strength is a long way off, and you cannot go thither.
The eldest of the boys replied, "We're going to take him home and sell him to a young man in our village.
He'll buy him, and then he'll boil him in a pot and eat him."
When he had delivered his message, the master of the house was greatly pleased and said, "Indeed, I am deeply grateful for this kindness, which will save my son's life."
"Well, at any rate, you must stop the night here."
I thought you were intimate enough with me to know my heart; but to day you have accused me of being eccentric, and I see how mistaken I have been in you.
"Thank you, sir: I've a relation in the next village whom I have not seen for a long while, and I will pass the night with him;" and so he took his leave, and went away.
The two friends were looking on all the while, and one of them, raising his voice, shouted out, "Hallo! you boys! what are you doing with that fox?"
When the parents heard this, they were at their wits' end.
If we had not interfered just now, the fox's cub would have lost its life.
"The commission with which you entrusted me about the fox's liver turned out to be a matter of impossibility, so I came to day to make my excuses; and now I really can't understand what you are so grateful to me for."
Last spring, when I was taking out my cub to play, it was carried off by some boys, and only saved by your goodness.
"Indeed, sir, I've already been paid for my trouble."
However, they told the state of the case to a man who lived on the mountains.
Your son's illness could not be cured without a liver taken from a live fox, so to repay your kindness I killed my cub and took out its liver; then its sire, disguising himself as a messenger, brought it to your house."
Last night the fox's liver that you required fell into his hands; so he sent me to bring it to you." With these words the messenger produced a small jar, adding, "In a few days he will let you know the price."
"Well," replied the other, after considering the matter attentively, "I suppose it's all the same to you whom you sell him to.
However, our friendship shall cease from this day forth."
"We must make a present to the messenger."
"Oh, we'll sell him for that, sir.
The parents lost no time in sending to let the physician know that they had procured the fox's liver.
At last, when calamity attacked your house, I thought I might be of use to you.
When I called you eccentric just now, I was but trying your heart, because I had some suspicions of you; and now I am truly ashamed of myself."
The other day I told mr So and so that, although my son were to die before my eyes, I would not be the means of killing a fox on purpose, but asked him, in case he heard of any hunter killing a fox, to buy it for me.
The man's friend, upon this, said to him: "Well, certainly you have got queer tastes.
I thought that you might wish to use the cub as a sort of decoy to lead the old ones to you, that you might pray them to bring prosperity and virtue to your house.
"Wait a bit!" cried the guest, who did not know what to make of the joy of the two parents.
"I really am perfectly unaware of having sent you a fox's liver: there must be some mistake here.
How could I stand by and see life taken?
And as she spoke, the fox shed tears; and the master of the house, wishing to thank her, moved in bed, upon which his wife awoke and asked him what was the matter; but he too, to her great astonishment, was biting the pillow and weeping bitterly.
"Well, this is very strange.
How shall we hand him over to you?"
Come, we will set it free!" And with these words they untied the string round the cub's neck, and turned its head toward the spot where the old foxes sat; and as the wounded foot was no longer painful, with one bound it dashed to its parents' side and licked them all over for joy, while they seemed to bow their thanks, looking toward the two friends.
We don't care what price we might have to pay for a fox's liver; pray, buy one for us at any expense." So they pressed him to exert himself on their behalf; and he, having promised faithfully to execute the commission, went his way.
At last a famous physician prescribed the liver taken from a live fox, which, as he said, would certainly effect a cure.
Hence it was that, in spite of myself, I was moved to tears."
At last he sat up in bed and said: "Last spring, when I was out on a pleasure excursion, I was the means of saving the life of a fox's cub, as I told you at the time.
Pray inquire carefully into the matter."
In the night of the following day there came a messenger, who announced himself as coming from the person who had undertaken to procure the fox's liver; so the master of the house went out to see him.
He was married, and this union had brought him one son, who had reached his tenth year, but had been attacked by a strange disease which defied all the physicians' skill and drugs.
The desire to requite this kindness pierced me to the quick.
The doctor prepared the medicine, and now our boy can get up and walk about the room; and it's all owing to your goodness."
How the foxes came to hear of this I don't know; but the foxes to whom I had shown kindness killed their own cub and took out the liver; and the old dog fox, disguising himself as a messenger from the person to whom we had confided the commission, came here with it.
What on earth are you going to keep the fox for?"
And as he spoke, still bowing, the other replied: "Really! was that indeed your thought?
"Look there!
The saints who are alluded to above are the saints of the whole country, as distinct from those who for special deeds are locally worshipped.
The next day the doctor came and compounded a medicine for the patient, which at once produced a good effect, and there was no little joy in the household.
The affairs of the Buddhist or imported religion are under the care of the family of Kanjuji.
If that were not forthcoming, the most expensive medicine in the world would not restore the boy to health.
"How very unkind of you to speak of my tastes like that.
the old foxes have come back, out of fear for their cub's safety.
When the priest heard what a helpless state the beast was reduced to, he was filled with pity and said:
Yet I would not get this money by violent or unlawful means; I only think of what might be if I had it.
I, who am a priest, ought not to entertain such thoughts, or to want money; so pray pay no attention to what I have said;" and the badger, feigning assent to what the priest had impressed upon it, returned to the hills as usual.
"Indeed," replied the priest, "I cannot choose but tell this story.
I pray you to let me enter and warm myself at the fire of your cottage, that I may live through this bitter night."
He had not even a child to wait upon him, but prepared his food with his own hands.
When this practice had gone on for ten years, one day the badger said to the priest, "Through your reverence's kindness for all these years, I have been able to pass the winter nights in comfort.
Your favours are such that during all my life, and even after my death, I must remember them.
Although the fame of his virtue did not reach far, yet his neighbours respected and revered him, and often brought him food and raiment; and when his roof or his walls fell out of repair, they would mend them for him; so for the things of this world he took no thought.
And yet even birds and beasts will show gratitude; so that a man who does not requite a favour is worse even than dumb brutes. Is not this a disgrace?
After three years had gone by, one night the old man heard a voice near his door calling out, "Your reverence! your reverence!"
As the badger would collect and bring with it dried branches and dead leaves from the hills for firewood, the priest at last became very friendly with it, and got used to its company; so that if ever, as the night wore on, the badger did not arrive, he used to miss it, and wonder why it did not come.
Food and raiment I receive by the favour of the villagers, so I take no heed for those things.
So you see, since you have expressed such kind feelings toward me, I have told you what is on my mind." When the priest had done speaking, the badger leant its head on one side with a puzzled and anxious look, so much so that the old man was sorry he had expressed a wish which seemed to give the beast trouble, and tried to retract what he had said.
What can I do to requite them?
It is a common saying among men that to forget favours received is the part of a bird or a beast: an ungrateful man will be ill spoken of by all the world.
After two hours the badger took its leave, with profuse expressions of thanks, and went out; and from that time forth it came every night to the hut.
If there is anything that you wish for, pray tell me."
"That's a very slight matter: make haste and come in and warm yourself."
The badger, delighted with so good a reception, went into the hut, and squatting down by the fire began to warm itself; and the priest, with renewed fervour, recited his prayers and struck his bell before the image of Buddha, looking straight before him.
Why not?
"Lucie!
"Take off his head!" cried the audience.
Under the President sat Doctor Manette, in his usual quiet dress.
Charles Evremonde, called Darnay, was accused by the public prosecutor as an emigrant, whose life was forfeit to the Republic, under the decree which banished all emigrants on pain of Death.
"Charles Evremonde, called Darnay!"
Doctor Manette was next questioned.
It was nothing that the decree bore date since his return to France.
Was that criminal in the eyes of the Republic?
"An enemy to the Republic!"
Of the men, the greater part were armed in various ways; of the women, some wore knives, some daggers, some ate and drank as they looked on, many knitted.
Get lively!
A bridge!"
"It's all right!
They used to make their lemonade out of the juice of wild oranges, sweetened with honey which they got from the bees' nests in hollow trees.
They even got the Doctor some tobacco one day, when he had finished what he had brought with him and wanted to smoke.
"Oh, dear!" said Gub Gub.
One day Chee Chee climbed up a high rock and looked out over the tree tops.
How are we ever going to get across?"
But when he cried they gave him milk out of the cocoanuts which he was very fond of.
Quick!--Make a bridge!
But when he looked back at the cliff, there, hanging across the river, was a bridge all ready for him-made of living monkeys!
You are the first to see the famous 'Bridge of Apes.'"
Gub Gub was a bit scared, walking on such a narrow bridge at that dizzy height above the river.
But the King's men, who were still following, had heard the noise of the monkeys cheering; and they at last knew where the Doctor was, and hastened on to catch him.
He called everybody a fool.
And the Doctor felt very pleased.
"Golly!
And the big one shouted to the Doctor, "Walk over!
I am afraid we are going to be taken back to prison again." And he began to weep.
And that same evening, sure enough, they saw Chee Chee's cousin and a lot of other monkeys, who had not yet got sick, sitting in the trees by the edge of a swamp, looking and waiting for them.
"Boys-a bridge!
A bridge!
So all this time, while the Doctor and his animals were going along towards the Land of the Monkeys, thinking themselves quite safe, they were still being followed by the King's men.
At night they slept in tents made of palm leaves, on thick, soft beds of dried grass.
"The King's men are quite close now-Look at them!
Walk over-all of you-hurry!"
"Well!
A woman in love with one man cannot flirt with another."
He cannot think this-and you may be sure that he would not have you think it.
Henry Tilney must know best.
"Does he?
When he started back in the spring, the king gave him two thralls as a parting gift.
One spring Leif said to his father:
He had shoes of scarlet with golden clasps.
The sea is full of fish."
"Why are you so late?" he asked.
The forests are without end.
Then he turned and started out to hunt for him.
The ship we will load with logs from these great trees.
So he steered for it.
His men followed, silent and ashamed.
His face is not the face of a fool.
He carries his head like a lord of men."
"He is surely worth knowing.
But people could not forget his story.
He stopped at all of these places and feasted his mind on the new things.
There were no kings in Iceland or in Greenland.
"Who are these strangers?" he asked.
"They are like food and drink," they cried.
He belted his jacket with a gold girdle.
At the feast that night Eric said:
"I will call this country Wineland for the grapes that grow there."
Why did you not set out to look for him?
They turned and talked to Leif's ship comrades who were scattered among them.
He had never seen a king.
"Leif shall sit in the place of honor."
As they looked back at the shore, Leif said:
"Lumber! lumber!" they cried.
Now the king was going to hold a feast at night, and Leif put on his most beautiful clothes to go to it.
They did not know where they were.
For he said to himself, 'I will not leave in shame.
On his head he put a knitted cap of bright colors.
"It is wonderful," Leif said.
Now half of you shall gather grapes for the next few days, and the other half shall cut timber."
"There is no stone here as in Norway, but only good black dirt," Leif said.
"For your sake I shall not forget Greenland."
'I will not stay in Iceland and be a beggar,' he said to himself.
Leif noticed two strangers, an old man who sat at Eric's side and a young woman on the cross bench.
I mean to marry her, if her father will permit it."
"No man would ever need a cloak there.
You are a welcome guest."
"I have never seen Norway, our mother land.
"It is right that you should go.
He was laughing and talking to himself.
"I have found grapes growing wild," answered Tyrker, and he laughed, and his eyes shone.
"They landed here this spring.
So they did, and after a week sailed off.
This hurt his pride.
The Greenlanders looked.
"Why did you not keep together?
He passed Iceland and the Faroes and the Shetlands.
He turned to his brother Thorstein who sat next to him.
We must start back.
"From Greenland!" said the king.
As they came near, the men said:
So he helped Leif fit out a boat and sent him off.
"Surely you must have plundered Asgard," they said, smacking their lips.
"There is no lack of fuel here," they said.
But ill luck came, and he grew poor.
"What is it?" cried the men.
Now one day they had been wandering about and all came back to camp at night except Tyrker.
"I will go to the king," he said.
A German, named Tyrker, was with Leif.
"Surely luck has brought us also to a new country.
"Let this gift show my love, Leif Ericsson," he said.
Grapes do not grow in Greenland nor in Iceland nor even in Norway.
Then Leif was angry.
The men were hungry and set about building a fire.
Surely this is a better country than Greenland or than Iceland either."
Leif sailed for months.
"Then he got ready a great feast and invited all his friends.
Come up and speak with me."
"I am glad to have you for a guest," the king said.
Then they saw the grapes and tasted them.
"Can I not tell grapes when I see them?" cried Tyrker.
You shall take us to them early in the morning, Tyrker."
"I have not been so very far, but I have found something wonderful."
One day as Eric sat in the pilot's seat, he said:
"It is a country of ice, shining white.
"It is a land of ice," they said.
"I smell better luck ahead."
Some men went because they thought it would be a great frolic to go to a new country.
"It is pleasant to sail along the coast now," said Eric.
Let every man carry what he can."
They sailed on south, all the time looking for a place to go ashore.
They all wrapped their cloaks about them.
"And it is still summer!" Thorhild said.
Then he laughed as he looked at his men.
"Hunted like a wolf from corner to corner of the world!" Eric cried angrily.
We must stay together."
It is better than Iceland."
A man of many places-Norway, the north of Iceland, the west of Iceland, those little islands off the shore of Iceland.
While they sat, a stranger came into the hall.
Word of what Eric meant to do got out, and men laughed and said:
"Perhaps we can find play for them in Iceland."
A great shout went up that shook the rafters.
Eric sat down in his chair and laughed.
"Yes!
Some went because they were poor in Iceland and thought:
"Ah, cheer up, good wife!" Eric laughed.
He bore hard on the rudder, but he could not turn the ship.
She has shut Norway to me and now Iceland. Where will you go next, old comrade?" and he pulled out his sword and looked at it and smiled as the fire flashed on it.
Come to my house for a feast."
"Only the bravest and the luckiest men come here," Eric said.
One spring after they had been in that land for four years, Eric said:
"Is it so?" Eric cried, leaping up.
"Now I have a plan," Eric suddenly said.
Some men liked the sound of it, and they came to Eric and said:
I have been driven about from place to place, like a seabird in a storm.
But as they came nearer, Eric all at once laughed loudly and called out:
No trees grew there.
"It is a very white Greenland, but men will like the sound of it.
The judges outlawed him because they were afraid.
"I see afar off an iceberg larger than any one yet.
Then laughter and talking began in the hall because Eric's good temper had come back.
"By Thor, that Gunnbiorn was a foolish fellow.
Anywhere behind Eric!"
"There is no friend like mead.
"It must be giants that sail in it, frost giants," said another of the men.
I am tired of the darkness and the smoke and the cattle.
"Thorgest is off.
"It sends out a cold breath," said one of the men.
Who will go with me?"
"Eric is a bloody man.
His men laughed and said:
Yes!
What will he not do?"
"But if I take my sport like a wolf, I must be hunted like one.
Then the men sat and talked over plans.
Soon they pulled the ship up on their own shore. Eric strolled into his house and called for supper.
Perhaps giants or dragons or strange men might come out of this inland ice and kill our people.
Men were walking about the plain and talking.
"We will go with you to this strange land."
All this time they were making ready for the voyage, repairing the ship and filling it with stores.
His men pounded on the tables and shouted:
Come back with me and choose your land."
I will visit my friends in Iceland."
"Is that not like Eric?
"Eric killed the men in fair fight.
"I always liked the stars better than a smoky house fire," said one.
"We cannot tell what might come between us.
His foe Thorgest has many rich and powerful men to back him."
Eric led his wife Thorhild and his two young sons, Thorstein and Leif.
When the men looked above the cliffs they saw a long line of white cutting the sky.
"Yonder is a strange pilot," Eric laughed.
"Can no bad fortune spoil your good nature?" laughed Eric.
Now we must have a name for our land.
So they went on toward it.
"The white mast stands as high as a hill."
I cannot make head against it. Out with the oars!"
All the time the weather was growing colder. Eric's people kept themselves wrapped in their cloaks and put scarfs around their heads.
Then he laughed.
"He is in a black temper," they said.
"Here I will build my house," he said.
Far off it looks flat, but when you walk upon it, there are great holes and cracks.
"Yes," shouted his men.
One day Eric said:
They took horses and cattle with them, and all kinds of tools and food.
Why, look!
Huge ships of ice sailed out from it and met him.
It is carrying our ship away from this land.
Soon other houses were built along the fiords.
I do not know, either, how long we must go."
So they did and lived there that summer and pastured their cattle and cut hay for the winter and fished and hunted.
Well, we have done it before."
So I will steer straight west.
Sometimes the sun showed for an hour, sometimes for only a few minutes, sometimes it did not show at all for a week.
The next spring Eric said:
At last they found a place that Eric liked.
"Well, I must off somewhere.
Always in a quarrel.
"And you thought of frost giants!"
"What will it be in winter?"
He jumped to his feet, and his face glowed.
"Ah! Eric, it is good to hear your laugh again," they said.
Everybody seemed much excited.
They ate the meat and wore the skins to keep them warm. The hardest thing was to get fuel for the fire.
It is no ship, and there is no one on it."
But they met heavy storms, and some ships were wrecked, and the men drowned.
So of those thirty five ships only fifteen got to Greenland.
"We must not freeze here."
"His story would make a fine song," one said.
"Perhaps this river will carry us to a whirlpool and suck us under," the men said.
After a while Eric said:
And some went because they loved Eric and wanted to be his neighbors.
"He walks like Thor the Fearless."
We shall surely find something.
When the drinking horns had been filled and emptied, Eric pulled himself up and smiled and shouted out so that the great room was full of his big voice:
Eric got into the pilot's seat and they sailed off.
When they came home they had this to tell:
"The land stretches far north.
"We should best not talk to him."
"A babe," corrected Rebecca
This was great good fortune, to find a customer who knew all the virtues of the article in advance.
"Or with me," laughed Rebecca.
"Lack of food and clothes principally."
"Oh, Rebecca! how could you call him a nickname the very first time you ever saw him?"
"What?" with an amused smile.
"Made out of pure vegetable fats, isn't it?"
"I can still remember it," answered Rebecca gravely, "though it seems a long time ago."
"He tucked the lap robe round us, too," continued Emma Jane, in an ecstasy of reminiscence.
Now give me the circular, and let's do some figuring.
"Not a trace."
"I see.
"I can see that they ought to have it if they want it, and especially if you want them to have it.
"I'm just on a visit to my aunt, who has gone to Portland.
Housewives looked at Emma Jane and desired no soap; listened to her description of its merits, and still desired none.
"Then there's something wrong with your aunt!"
"I was a sort of commercial traveler myself once,--years ago,--and I like to see the thing well done.
"And yet a child could do the Monday washing with it and use no force."
Rebecca walked up the lane and went to the side door.
By dint of superhuman effort, and putting such a seal upon their lips as never mortals put before, the two girls succeeded in keeping their wonderful news to themselves; although it was obvious to all beholders that they were in an extraordinary and abnormal state of mind.
"I haven't got over trembling from the last place yet." (A lady had put her head out of an upstairs window and called, "Go away, little girl; whatever you have in your box we don't want any.") "I don't know who lives here, and the blinds are all shut in front.
It'll be five years before we're ladies."
"Everybody says you're awful bright and smart, and mother thinks you'll be better looking all the time as you grow older.
"What are you going to do with the magnificent profits you get from this business?"
"No acid in it?"
Rebecca could not make up her mind. At all events he had an air of the city about him,--well shaven face, well trimmed mustache, well fitting clothes.
"Have you ever heard of the-would you like, or I mean-do you need any soap?" queried Rebecca.
Presently she forgot all about her silent partner at the gate and was talking as if she had known this grand personage all her life.
mr
"Oh, don't mention it!" laughed mr Aladdin, lifting his hat.
It is called the"--
mr Aladdin followed smilingly to corroborate this astonishing, unbelievable statement; lifted all their boxes from the back of the wagon, and taking the circular, promised to write to the Excelsior Company that night concerning the premium.
There was a porch there, and seated in a rocking chair, husking corn, was a good looking young man, or was he middle aged?
Are you sure you can afford it?"
Your mother was generous."
"I'm not certain," said Rebecca conscientiously, "but I'll look in the circular-it's sure to tell;" and she drew the document from her pocket.
"Do I look as if I did?" he responded unexpectedly.
"If you could contrive to keep a secret,--you two little girls,--it would be rather a nice surprise to have the lamp arrive at the Simpsons' on Thanksgiving Day, wouldn't it?" he asked, as he tucked the old lap robe cosily over their feet.
"I am the lady of the house at present," said the stranger, with a whimsical smile.
Rebecca dimpled more and more, and at her new friend's invitation sat down on a stool at his side near the edge of the porch.
"Oh!" exclaimed Rebecca sympathetically,--"mine was no shoes and too many babies and not enough books.
And just think of having both the lamp and the shade for one day's work!
"Never mind," answered Rebecca; "we are the BEGINNINGS of ladies, even now."
"He raised his hat to us, and we not thirteen!
"Oh! isn't he perfectly elergant?
Rebecca had been seated on a stool very near to the edge of the porch, and at this remark she made a sudden movement, tipped over, and disappeared into a clump of lilac bushes.
They did not accompany each other to the doors of their chosen victims, feeling sure that together they could not approach the subject seriously; but they parted at the gate of each house, the one holding the horse while the other took the soap samples and interviewed any one who seemed of a coming on disposition.
We are trying to get a premium for some friends of ours."
Good by Miss Rebecca Rowena!
"It's your turn, Rebecca, and I'm glad, too," said Emma Jane, drawing up to a gateway and indicating a house that was set a considerable distance from the road.
"What can I do for you?"
"If I can't, I'll save on something else," returned the jocose philanthropist.
ALADDIN
"I think I know already," answered Rebecca, with a bright glance.
You wouldn't believe it, but I was a dreadful homely baby, and homely right along till just a year or two ago, when my red hair began to grow dark.
"You needn't argue that point," laughed the man, as he stood up to get a glimpse of the "rich blacksmith's daughter" at the gate.
I'll take three hundred cakes, and that will give them shade and all."
"Oh, I could never say anything like that!" exclaimed Rebecca, who was blushing crimson at her awkward fall.
Well, that's all right.
She must be so tired waiting, and she will be so glad!"
"Aladdin isn't a nickname exactly; anyway, he laughed and seemed to like it."
"Good by, mr Aladdin!
Aren't you glad you wore your pink gingham now, even if mother did make you put on flannel underneath?
"I'm keeping house to day, but I don't live here," explained the delightful gentleman.
I must know that soap," said the gentleman genially.
"BOTH?
"I'm doing pretty well, thank you," said the man, with a delightful smile.
"Oh, I don't know about that; soap keeps, doesn't it?"
I've known what it was myself to do without a banquet lamp.
"You should never seem surprised when you have taken a large order," said he; "you ought to have replied 'Can't you make it three hundred and fifty?' instead of capsizing in that unbusinesslike way."
That child grows younger every year, instead of older-wise child!"
"We are not selling for our own benefit," said Rebecca confidentially. "My friend who is holding the horse at the gate is the daughter of a very rich blacksmith, and doesn't need any money.
Rebecca had heard the news of its arrival, but waited until nearly dark before asking permission to go to the Simpsons', so that she might see the gorgeous trophy lighted and sending a blaze of crimson glory through its red crepe paper shade.
"Rebecca Rowena Randall, sir."
"I didn't mean THAT; I have some soap to sell; I mean I would like to introduce to you a very remarkable soap, the best now on the market.
Rebecca was a trifle shy at this unexpected encounter, but there was nothing to be done but explain her presence, so she asked, "Is the lady of the house at home?"
Emma Jane had disposed of three single cakes, Rebecca of three small boxes; for a difference in their ability to persuade the public was clearly defined at the start, though neither of them ascribed either success or defeat to anything but the imperious force of circumstances.
Emma Jane! we are sold out!"
"Oh!
"Oh! a babe, eh?
Rebecca dimpled.
Other stars in their courses governed Rebecca's doings.
The people whom she interviewed either remembered their present need of soap, or reminded themselves that they would need it in the future; the notable point in the case being that lucky Rebecca accomplished, with almost no effort, results that poor little Emma Jane failed to attain by hard and conscientious labor.
You do look so pretty in pink and red, Rebecca, and so homely in drab and brown!"
"The very purest," corroborated Rebecca.
"What was your worst trouble?"
If there's nobody at home you mustn't count it, but take the next house as yours."
"So you consider your childhood a thing of the past, do you, young lady?"
And wasn't it lovely of him to buy us out?
"I never thought to ask!" ejaculated Rebecca.
"What if your aunt shouldn't like the kind of soap?" queried Rebecca nervously.
It was a very short distance, fortunately, and the amused capitalist picked her up, set her on her feet, and brushed her off.
"Mine doesn't!" exclaimed Rebecca
But I called him mr Aladdin because he gave us a lamp.
"If they sell two hundred more cakes this month and next, they can have the lamp by Christmas," Rebecca answered, "and they can get a shade by summer time; but I'm afraid I can't help very much after to day, because my aunt Miranda may not like to have me."
"No," grumbled Emma Jane; "infant is worse even than babe.
Just before Thanksgiving the affairs of the Simpsons reached what might have been called a crisis, even in their family, which had been born and reared in a state of adventurous poverty and perilous uncertainty.
There were still many leaves on the oaks and maples, making a goodly show of red and brown and gold. The air was like sparkling cider, and every field had its heaps of yellow and russet good things to eat, all ready for the barns, the mills, and the markets.
A gorgeous leaf blew into the wagon.
It is called the Snow White and Rose Red Soap, six cakes in an ornamental box, only twenty cents for the white, twenty five cents for the red.
The premiums within their possible grasp were three: a bookcase, a plush reclining chair, and a banquet lamp.
"I'm going to have a white satin with a pink sash, pink stockings, bronze slippers, and a spangled fan."
Emma Jane practiced it on Rebecca, and Rebecca on Emma Jane.
"Great, wide, beautiful, wonderful World, With the wonderful water round you curled, And the wonderful grass upon your breast, World, you are beautifully drest!"
Rebecca laughed.
It was a rustly day, a scarlet and buff, yellow and carmine, bronze and crimson day.
Riverboro was doing its best to return the entire tribe of Simpsons to the land of its fathers, so to speak, thinking rightly that the town which had given them birth, rather than the town of their adoption, should feed them and keep a roof over their heads until the children were of an age for self support.
I could look at all the rest of the woods, see my scarlet dress in my beautiful looking glass, and watch all the yellow and brown trees growing upside down in the water.
Immerse the garments in a tub, lightly rubbing the more soiled portions with the soap; leave them submerged in water from sunset to sunrise, and then the youngest baby can wash them without the slightest effort."
His method, when once observed, could never be forgotten; nor his manner, nor his vocabulary.
thirteen
SNOW WHITE; ROSE RED
Would you rather say infant?"
Oh! won't it be the greatest fun, Emma Jane?
"Then I could see so much more than your pink apple tree by the pig pen.
"The Snow White is probably the most remarkable laundry soap ever manufactured.
At some of the houses-where they can't possibly know me-I shan't be frightened, and I shall reel off the whole rigmarole, invalid, babe, and all.
Clara Belle was rather a successful agent, but Susan, who could only say "thoap," never made large returns, and the twins, who were somewhat young to be thoroughly trustworthy, could be given only a half dozen cakes at a time, and were obliged to carry with them on their business trips a brief document stating the price per cake, dozen, and box.
"BABE, not baby," corrected Rebecca from the circular.
It was at this juncture that Clara Belle and Susan Simpson consulted Rebecca, who threw herself solidly and wholeheartedly into the enterprise, promising her help and that of Emma Jane Perkins.
"It's just the same thing," argued Emma Jane.
Rebecca and Emma Jane offered to go two or three miles in some one direction and see what they could do in the way of stirring up a popular demand for the Snow White and Rose Red brands, the former being devoted to laundry purposes and the latter being intended for the toilet.
They had sold enough to their immediate neighbors during the earlier autumn to secure a child's handcart, which, though very weak on its pins, could be trundled over the country roads.
"Perhaps dizzy isn't just the right word, but it's nearest.
Life was rather dull and dreary, however, and in the chill and gloom of November weather, with the vision of other people's turkeys bursting with fat, and other people's golden pumpkins and squashes and corn being garnered into barns, the young Simpsons groped about for some inexpensive form of excitement, and settled upon the selling of soap for a premium.
"It takes so little to make you feel like a fool, Emma Jane," rebuked Rebecca, "that sometimes I think that you must BE one I don't get to feeling like a fool so awfully easy; now leave out that eating part if you don't like it, and go on."
These were lifted into the back of the wagon, and a happier couple never drove along the country road than Rebecca and her companion.
It was only of polished brass, continued the circular, though it was invariably mistaken for solid gold, and the shade that accompanied it (at least it accompanied it if the agent sold a hundred extra cakes) was of crinkled crepe paper printed in a dozen delicious hues, from which the joy dazzled agent might take his choice.
Rebecca, do you think we'd better do as the circular says, and let Elijah or Elisha try the soap before we begin selling?"
"Of course it's just the same THING; but a baby has got to be called babe or infant in a circular, the same as it is in poetry!
It was a glorious Indian summer day, which suggested nothing of Thanksgiving, near at hand as it was.
With large business sagacity and an executive capacity which must have been inherited from their father, they now proposed to extend their operations to a larger area and distribute soap to contiguous villages, if these villages could be induced to buy.
"Oh, Rebecca, don't let's say that!" interposed Emma Jane hysterically. "It makes me feel like a fool."
"No," answered Emma Jane after a long pause; "no, it don't; not a mite."
They had the soap company's circular from which to arrange a proper speech, and they had, what was still better, the remembrance of a certain patent medicine vender's discourse at the Milltown Fair.
It looked to be about eight feet tall in the catalogue, and Emma Jane advised Clara Belle to measure the height of the Simpson ceilings; but a note in the margin of the circular informed them that it stood two and a half feet high when set up in all its dignity and splendor on a proper table, three dollars extra.
"I'd rather be an apple tree in blossom,--that one that blooms pink, by our pig pen."
Do they have green petticoats, I wonder?
They were not exactly popular favorites, but they did receive certain undesirable morsels from the more charitable housewives.
"Does color make you sort of dizzy?" asked Rebecca.
Emma Jane had enjoyed considerable experience of this kind, and Rebecca had succeeded in unstopping her ears, ungluing her eyes, and loosening her tongue, so that she could "play the game" after a fashion.
It is made from the purest ingredients, and if desired could be eaten by an invalid with relish and profit."
"I think it would be awful homely," said Emma Jane.
If you could be a tree, which one would you choose?"
I was soon appointed to a Fellowship in political economy, and by means of this and some temporary employment by McGill University, I survived until I took the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in nineteen o three.
After this, no new ideas can be imparted to him.
I have had some small connection with politics and public life.
This was during the hard times of Canadian farming, and my father was just able by great diligence to pay the hired men and, in years of plenty, to raise enough grain to have seed for the next year's crop without buying any.
mr Pupkin is found whenever a Canadian bank opens a branch in a county town and needs a teller.
When I state that these lectures were followed almost immediately by the Union of South Africa, the Banana Riots in Trinidad, and the Turco Italian war, I think the reader can form some idea of their importance.
From this time, and since my marriage, which had occurred at this period, I have belonged to the staff of McGill University, first as lecturer in Political Science, and later as head of the department of Economics and Political Science.
This, however, is a form of national ingratitude to which one becomes accustomed in this Dominion.
By this means some of the blame for what he has done is very properly shifted to the extenuating circumstances of his life.
I have written a number of things in connection with my college life-a book on Political Science, and many essays, magazine articles, and so on.
In regard to the present work I must disclaim at once all intentions of trying to do anything so ridiculously easy as writing about a real place and real people.
Preface
I belong to the Political Science Association of America, to the Royal Colonial Institute, and to the Church of England.
But to write something out of one's own mind, worth reading for its own sake, is an arduous contrivance only to be achieved in fortunate moments, few and far between.
The inspiration of the book,--a land of hope and sunshine where little towns spread their square streets and their trim maple trees beside placid lakes almost within echo of the primeval forest,--is large enough.
There is no trouble in writing a scientific treatise on the folk lore of Central China, or a statistical enquiry into the declining population of Prince Edward Island.
The compositors fell back from their task suffocated with laughter and gasping for air. Nothing but the intervention of the linotype machine-or rather, of the kind of men who operate it-made it possible to print these books.
My parents migrated to Canada in eighteen seventy six, and I decided to go with them.
The meaning of this degree is that the recipient of instruction is examined for the last time in his life, and is pronounced completely full.
In point of leisure, I enjoy more in the four corners of a single year than a business man knows in his whole life.
By this process my brothers and I were inevitably driven off the land, and have become professors, business men, and engineers, instead of being able to grow up as farm labourers.
Preface
Yet these works are of so humorous a character that for many years it was found impossible to print them.
Mariposa is not a real town.
Mullins and Bagshaw and Judge Pepperleigh and the rest are, it is true, personal friends of mine.
From there I went to the University of Toronto, where I graduated in eighteen ninety one.
I have noted that of my pupils, those who seemed the laziest and the least enamoured of books are now rising to eminence at the bar, in business, and in public life; the really promising boys who took all the prizes are now able with difficulty to earn the wages of a clerk in a summer hotel or a deck hand on a canal boat.
In this diligent pursuit of words I spent about sixteen hours of each day.
In other words I was what is called a distinguished graduate, and, as such, I took to school teaching as the only trade I could find that need neither experience nor intellect.
I was educated at Upper Canada College, Toronto, of which I was head boy in eighteen eighty seven.
I was born at Swanmoor, Hants, England, on december thirtieth eighteen sixty nine.
I am not aware that there was any particular conjunction of the planets at the time, but should think it extremely likely.
I know no way in which a writer may more fittingly introduce his work to the public than by giving a brief account of who and what he is.
In Canada I belong to the Conservative party, but as yet I have failed entirely in Canadian politics, never having received a contract to build a bridge, or make a wharf, nor to construct even the smallest section of the Transcontinental Railway.
You may find them all the way from Lake Superior to the sea, with the same square streets and the same maple trees and the same churches and hotels, and everywhere the sunshine of the land of hope.
Very soon after graduation I had forgotten the languages, and found myself intellectually bankrupt.
At the University I spent my entire time in the acquisition of languages, living, dead, and half dead, and knew nothing of the outside world.
Apart from my college work, I have written two books, one called "Literary Lapses" and the other "Nonsense Novels." Each of these is published by john Lane (London and New York), and either of them can be obtained, absurd though it sounds, for the mere sum of three shillings and sixpence.
My father took up a farm near Lake Simcoe, in Ontario.
To make him I clapped the gaiters of one ecclesiastic round the legs of another, added the sermons of a third and the character of a fourth, and so let him start on his way in the book to pick up such individual attributes as he might find for himself.
I spent my time from eighteen ninety one to eighteen ninety nine on the staff of Upper Canada College, an experience which has left me with a profound sympathy for the many gifted and brilliant men who are compelled to spend their lives in the most dreary, the most thankless, and the worst paid profession in the world.
These things, surely, are a proof of respectability.
My own experience is exactly the other way.
I thus have what the business man can never enjoy, an ability to think, and, what is still better, to stop thinking altogether for months at a time.
Any reader of this preface, for example, ridiculous though it appears, could walk into a bookstore and buy both of these books for seven shillings.
Even now people have to be very careful in circulating them, and the books should never be put into the hands of persons not in robust health.
Yet I saw enough of farming to speak exuberantly in political addresses of the joy of early rising and the deep sleep, both of body and intellect, that is induced by honest manual toil.
But I have known them in such a variety of forms, with such alternations of tall and short, dark and fair, that, individually, I should have much ado to know them.
The writing of solid, instructive stuff fortified by facts and figures is easy enough.
As for mr Smith, with his two hundred and eighty pounds, his hoarse voice, his loud check suit, his diamonds, the roughness of his address and the goodness of his heart,--all of this is known by everybody to be a necessary and universal adjunct of the hotel business.
Why, to those as don't want it, every time.
Pete Glover at the hardware store bought Nippewa stock at thirteen cents and sold it to his brother at seventeen and bought it back in less than a week at nineteen.
That was Jeff's money-part of it.
It was only by a sort of accident that I came to know that there was another side to Jefferson's speculation that no one in Mariposa ever knew, or will ever know now.
So, of course, as soon as Jeff made the fortune, Myra had her resignation in next morning and everybody knew that she was to go to a dramatic school for three months in the fall and become a leading actress.
And then when Myra would go off duty and Miss Cleghorn, who was sallow, would come on, the commercial men would be off again like autumn leaves.
Not a cent and never will."
They wrote most handsomely.
Excitement!
And Myra is back at the Telephone Exchange-they were glad enough to get her, and she says now that if there's one thing she hates, it's the stage, and she can't see how the actresses put up with it.
Well, that's how he walked.
But still,--what's the use of talking of what Jeff meant to do?
Even in Mariposa some of the people must have thought so.
I've boughten in Johnson's shares, and the whole of Netley's, and I'll stay with her till she breaks."
They have to.
But what he did do, was to buy up enough early potatoes to send fifteen carload lots into Cobalt at a profit of five dollars a bag.
That was why, of course, within a week from this Jeff received the first big packet of stuff from the Cuban Land Development Company, with coloured pictures of Cuba, and fields of bananas, and haciendas and insurrectos with machetes and Heaven knows what.
They can't squeeze me."
For all I know, this Cuban stuff may have been sent from Morgan himself. Some of the people in Mariposa said yes, others said no There was no certainty.
No conflict between vice and virtue was ever grimmer.
"And now look at 'em," Jeff went on.
So they shoved and pushed and clawed her down-that unseen nefarious crowd in the city-and Jeff held on to her and they writhed and twisted at his grip, and then-
Then he'd take a look at the pink and blue certificates of the Corona Jewel and slam the drawer on them in disgust.
But perhaps the meanest case of all was the Northern Star.
I suppose the most rudimentary form of his speculation was the hens. That was years ago.
Everybody knew Jeff and liked him, but the odd thing was that till he made money nobody took any stock in his ideas at all.
She's full of it.
It makes one drowsy just to think of it!
After that the hen house stood empty and The Woman had to throw away chicken feed every day, at a dead loss of perhaps a shave and a half. But it made no difference to Jeff, for his mind had floated away already on the possibilities of what he called "displacement" mining on the Yukon.
Utter lack of engineering skill was all that was keeping the Silent Pine from making a fortune for its holders.
Take the case of Corona Jewel.
"She ain't been developed," Jeff would say.
Even when Johnson, the livery stable man, came in with five hundred dollars and asked him to see if the Cuban Board of Directors would let him put it in, Jeff laid it in the drawer and then shaved him for five cents, in the same old way.
"They're working her down," he admitted, "but I'm holding her."
But what I mean is that, till the mining boom, Jefferson Thorpe never occupied a position of real prominence in Mariposa.
The whole thing was in the city papers a few days after with a photograph of Jeff, taken specially at Ed Moore's studio (upstairs over Netley's).
If you're in it, you're in it, that's all!
But I think what Jeff liked best of it all was the sort of public recognition that it meant.
I liked it about Jeff that he didn't stop shaving.
Did I mention Myra, Jeff's daughter?
A shave cost five cents, and a hair cut fifteen (or the two, if you liked, for a quarter), and at that it is hard to see how he could make money, even when he had both chairs going and shaved first in one and then in the other.
They didn't care! They took a chance.
The thing was so evidently a conspiracy.
Of course, he must have felt proud when, a few days later, he got a letter from the Cuban people, from New York, accepting the money straight off without a single question, and without knowing anything more of Johnson except that he was a friend of Jeff's.
If they'd just go right into her good, they'd get it again.
Then, as I think I said, mr Smith came in every morning and there was a tremendous outpouring of Florida water and rums, essences and revivers and renovators, regardless of expense.
It was the only way to test him.
It is one of those wooden structures-I don't know whether you know them-with a false front that sticks up above its real height and gives it an air at once rectangular and imposing.
The Speculations of Jefferson Thorpe
Anyhow, they asked him about the climate, and yellow fever and what the negroes were like and all that sort of thing.
And right at our very doors!
Jim Eliot mortgaged the inside of the drug store and jammed it into Twin Tamagami.
Through the window you can see the geraniums in the window shelf and behind them Jeff Thorpe with his little black scull cap on and his spectacles drooped upon his nose as he bends forward in the absorption of shaving.
Why, no wonder; it seemed like the finger of Providence.
"Level headed" I think was the term; indeed in the speech of Mariposa, the highest form of endowment was to have the head set on horizontally as with a theodolite.
Perhaps not.
And who do they give it to?
They offered him to come right in and be one of themselves.
They made no rash promises, just admitted straight out that the enterprise might realise four hundred per cent. or might conceivably make less.
So this night,--I don't know just what it was in the paper that caused it,--Jeff laid down what he was reading and started to talk about Carnegie.
Anyway, what's two hundred miles!
The house,--I think I said it,--stood out behind the barber shop.
And when she acted Portia in the Trial Scene of the Merchant of Venice at the High School concert, everybody in Mariposa admitted that you couldn't have told it from the original.
And it was here that Jefferson used to sit in the evenings when the shop got empty.
Inside, there are two shaving chairs of the heavier, or electrocution pattern, with mirrors in front of them and pigeon holes with individual shaving mugs.
Just as well write him to be a director now as wait and hesitate till he forces his way into it.
There must be ever so many of them, fifteen or sixteen.
Still, it was realized that a man with money has got to know these things.
No, sir."
I never knew the meanness, the trickery, of the mining business, the sheer obstinate determination of the bigger capitalists not to make money when they might, till I heard the accounts of Jeff's different mines.
Within a fortnight they put a partition down Robertson's Coal and Wood Office and opened the Mariposa Mining Exchange, and just about every man on the Main Street started buying scrip.
She's down there all right."
All money they might send would be treated just as Jeff's would be treated.
Anyway, they were fair and straight, this Cuban crowd that wrote to Jeff.
Still, it lends distinction somehow, just as do the faded cardboard signs that hang against the mirror with the legends: TURKISH SHAMPOO, seventy five CENTS, and ROMAN MASSAGE, one dollar.
You could see it all there in the pictures-tobacco plants and the insurrectos-everything.
But if a feller knows the country and keeps his head level, he can't lose."
"They've got her down to three cents," said Jeff, "but I'm with her. Yes, sir, they think they can shove her clean off the market, but they can't do it.
I say that the recognition meant a lot to Jeff for its own sake.
But no doubt the fortune meant quite a bit to him too on account of Myra.
Painted on the panes of the window is the remains of a legend that once spelt BARBER SHOP, executed with the flourishes that prevailed in the golden age of sign painting in Mariposa.
And right from the start he was confident of winning.
You couldn't, for example, have compared him with a man like Golgotha Gingham, who, as undertaker, stood in a direct relation to life and death, or to Trelawney, the postmaster, who drew money from the Federal Government of Canada, and was regarded as virtually a member of the Dominion Cabinet.
Indeed, after that, though Jefferson never spoke of his intentions directly, he said a number of things that seemed to bear on them.
Just send the money whether by express order or by bank draft or cheque, they left that entirely to oneself, as a matter between Cuban gentlemen.
Any friends of Jeff's were friends of Cuba.
They give it away.
But it's hard to see how he could.
That always seemed to me, every time I heard of it, a straight case for the criminal law.
"I see where this here Carnegie has give fifty thousand dollars for one of them observatories," he would say.
What with Jeff's white coat and mr Smith's flowered waistcoat and the red geranium in the window and the Florida water and the double extract of hyacinth, the little shop seemed multi coloured and luxurious enough for the annex of a Sultan's harem.
This morning they've got her down to sixteen, but I don't mean to let go.
To a humble intellect like mine he would explain in full the relations of the Keesar to the German Rich Dog.
It stands to reason.
It was not until the mining boom, at the time when everybody went simply crazy over the Cobalt and Porcupine mines of the new silver country near the Hudson Bay, that Jefferson Thorpe reached what you might call public importance in Mariposa.
There they read the whole thing from cover to cover, and they build up on it, in the course of years, a range of acquirement that would put a college president to the blush.
But in Mariposa it's different.
He knew what it was to eat flour baked dampers under the lee side of a canoe propped among the underbrush, and to drink the last drop of whiskey within fifty miles.
I suppose a good many of us have felt just as Jeff did about our poor little earnings.
They heard of him, somehow,--it wasn't for a modest man like Jefferson to say how.
They know just as much as Jeff did about the countries where they make it.
It just shows the difference between people.
And Jeff stood there flushed and half staggered against the mirror of the little shop, with a bunch of mining scrip in his hand that was worth forty thousand dollars!
The moment you begin to get that sort of thing it comes in quickly enough. Brains, you know, are recognized right away.
The end of it was bound to come.
Of course everybody knew Jeff and his little barber shop that stood just across the street from Smith's Hotel.
And even when young Fizzlechip shot himself in the back room of the Mariposa House, mr Gingham buried him in a casket with silver handles and it was felt that there was a Monte Carlo touch about the whole thing.
"I bought her," said Jeff, "at thirty two, and she stayed right there tight, like she was stuck.
And why was it that mr Smith wouldn't pay Billy, the desk clerk, his back wages when he wanted to put it into Cuba?
The barber shop, you will remember, stands across the street from Smith's Hotel, and stares at it face to face.
The fever just caught the town and ran through it!
Jeff has to work pretty late, but that's nothing-nothing at all, if you've worked hard all your lifetime.
Mullins, the manager of the Exchange Bank, took his morning shave from Jeff as a form of resuscitation, with enough wet towels laid on his face to stew him and with Jeff moving about in the steam, razor in hand, as grave as an operating surgeon.
He had a kind of divination about it. There was a certain kind of man that Jeff would size up sideways as he stropped the razor, and in whose ear he would whisper: "I see where Saint Louis has took four straight games off Chicago,"--and so hold him fascinated to the end.
Then at night there was a big oyster supper in Smith's caff, with speeches, and the Mariposa band outside.
It was probably in him from the start.
I suppose in some financial circles they might have been slower, wanted guarantees of some sort, and so on, but these Cubans, you know, have got a sort of Spanish warmth of heart that you don't see in business men in America, and that touches you.
Judge Pepperleigh put the rest of his wife's money into Temiskaming Common, and Lawyer Macartney got the fever, too, and put every cent that his sister possessed into Tulip Preferred.
There is a red, white and blue post in front of the shop and the shop itself has a large square window out of proportion to its little flat face.
In the city, people never read the newspapers, not really, only little bits and scraps of them.
In another fortnight they shoved her, the same unscrupulous crowd, down to nine cents, and Jefferson still held on.
Perhaps you've felt it about people that you know.
So no wonder the town went wild!
You could see the light of the lamp behind the blind, and through the screen door as you came along.
She was a girl with any amount of talent.
So within a month, everybody in Mariposa knew that Jeff Thorpe was "in Cuban lands" and would probably clean up half a million by New Year's. You couldn't have failed to know it.
To an onlooker it certainly didn't seem so simple.
You could see, as I saw, the night express going north every evening; for all one knew Rockefeller or Carnegie or anyone might be on it!
If a man's got the brains, you may as well recognize it straight away.
Worse than that was the Silent Pine,--a clear case of stupid incompetence!
He went on just the same.
In the same way he would say to mr Smith: "I see where it says that this 'Flying Squirl' run a dead heat for the King's Plate."
I believe it's something the same in other places too.
As you open the door, it sets in violent agitation a coiled spring up above and a bell that almost rings.
"They make their money and what do they do with it?
"This Cubey, it appears is an island," Jeff would explain.
The conversation, of course, was the real charm of the place.
In fact, I had perhaps borne him a grudge for what seemed to me his perpetual interest in the great capitalists.
"The only trouble with that mine," said Jeff, "is they won't go deep enough.
I may say in parentheses that it was a favourite method in Mariposa if you wanted to get at the real worth of a man, to imagine him clean sold up, put up for auction, as it were.
They all went in-or all except mr Smith.
Of course, everybody knows how easily islands lend themselves to making money,--"and for fruit, they say it comes up so fast you can't stop it." And then he would pass into details about the Hash enders and the resurrectos and technical things like that till it was thought a wonder how he could know it.
Here was the wealth of Calcutta, as the Mariposa Newspacket put it, poured out at our very feet.
Not at all.
They all went in.
mr Smith, I say, hung back.
So always after that I knew just what those bananas were being grown for.
One reason, perhaps, why Jeff didn't give up shaving was because it allowed him to talk about Cuba.
Mind you, I don't mean that Myra was merely flippant and worthless.
A shave is looked upon as a form of physical pleasure and lasts anywhere from twenty five minutes to three quarters of an hour.
There was no hint of more.
All day in the street you could hear men talking of veins, and smelters and dips and deposits and faults,--the town hummed with it like a geology class on examination day.
I don't say," he used to continue, with the scissors open and ready to cut, "that some of the greenhorns won't get bit.
Where he got it all, I don't know, but I am inclined to think it came more or less out of the newspapers.
It is the current supposition of each of Jeff's customers that everyone else but himself uses a separate mug. One corner of the shop is partitioned off and bears the sign: HOT AND COLD BATHS, fifty CENTS.
He may have, and it may have been that that turned his mind to investment.
And they were quite frank about their enterprise-bananas and tobacco in the plantation district reclaimed from the insurrectos.
You see, in Mariposa, shaving isn't the hurried, perfunctory thing that it is in the city.
It was all over the town in a minutes.
And since that, though it's quite a little while ago, the shop's open till eleven every night now, and Jeff is shaving away to pay back that five hundred that Johnson, the livery man, sent to the Cubans, and-
You don't know Mariposa.
As you saw her swinging up the street to the Telephone Exchange in a suit that was straight out of the Delineator and brown American boots, there was style written all over her,--the kind of thing that Mariposa recognised and did homage to.
You see, Jefferson's forte, or specialty, was information.
I thought that perhaps getting so much money,--well, you know the way it acts on people in the larger cities.
He bought in on the Nippewa mine even before the interim prospectus was out.
Not quite.
Anyway, things are not so bad.
Pathetic?
Everybody knew him and everybody got shaved there.
"I tell you, boys," continued Jeff (there were no boys present, but in Mariposa all really important speeches are addressed to an imaginary audience of boys)--"I tell you, if I was to make a million out of this Cubey, I'd give it straight to the poor, yes, sir-divide it up into a hundred lots of a thousand dollars each and give it to the people that hadn't nothing."
I knew it because I went in to see Jeff in his house one night.
"She's at six," said Jeff, "but I've got her.
Nobody knows or cares about it now.
It showed Jeff sitting among palm trees, as all mining men do, with one hand on his knee, and a dog, one of those regular mining dogs, at his feet, and a look of piercing intelligence in his face that would easily account for forty thousand dollars.
He did it too.
Jeff realized why it is that of course men like Carnegie or Rockefeller and Morgan all know one another.
And the queer thing was that the very next afternoon was the funeral of young Fizzlechip, and Dean Drone had to change the whole text of his Sunday sermon at two days' notice for fear of offending public sentiment.
He kept them out at the back of his house,--which itself stood up a grass plot behind and beyond the barber shop,--and in the old days Jeff would say, with a certain note of pride in his voice, that The Woman had sold as many as two dozen eggs in a day to the summer visitors.
You should have heard her recite "The Raven," at the Methodist Social!
But Jeff Thorpe was in the mining boom right from the start.
Jefferson had looked at so many prospectuses and so many pictures of mines and pine trees and smelters, that I think he'd forgotten that he'd never been in the country.
It is strange how quiet these things look, the other way round.
Simply genius!
"But, excellency"--said Pastrini, still striving to gain his point.
Sometimes a chief is wanted, but when a chief presents himself he rarely has to wait long for a band of followers.
Teresa was sixteen, and Vampa seventeen.
"Where do your excellencies wish to go?" asked he.
He found the old man suspended from one of the branches of the oak which shaded his daughter's grave. He then took an oath of bitter vengeance over the dead body of the one and the tomb of the other.
The steward gave him a gun; this was what Vampa longed for.
"That is what all the French say," returned Signor Pastrini, somewhat piqued; "for that reason, I do not understand why they travel."
He was to leave the city by the Porta del Popolo, skirt the outer wall, and re-enter by the Porta San Giovanni; thus they would behold the Colosseum without finding their impressions dulled by first looking on the Capitol, the Forum, the Arch of Septimus Severus, the Temple of Antoninus and Faustina, and the Via Sacra.
There was some surprise, however, that, as he was with his face to the enemy, he should have received a ball between his shoulders. That astonishment ceased when one of the brigands remarked to his comrades that Cucumetto was stationed ten paces in Carlini's rear when he fell.
When the grave was formed, the father kissed her first, and then the lover; afterwards, one taking the head, the other the feet, they placed her in the grave.
At the sight of Carlini, Cucumetto rose, a pistol in each hand.
Carlini besought his chief to make an exception in Rita's favor, as her father was rich, and could pay a large ransom.
"One day the young shepherd told the count's steward that he had seen a wolf come out of the Sabine mountains, and prowl around his flock.
Teresa saw herself rich, superbly attired, and attended by a train of liveried domestics.
Teresa alone ruled by a look, a word, a gesture, this impetuous character, which yielded beneath the hand of a woman, and which beneath the hand of a man might have broken, but could never have been bended.
His disposition (always inclined to exact concessions rather than to make them) kept him aloof from all friendships.
When their parents are sufficiently rich to pay a ransom, a messenger is sent to negotiate; the prisoner is hostage for the security of the messenger; should the ransom be refused, the prisoner is irrevocably lost.
'Let us draw lots! let us draw lots!' cried all the brigands, when they saw the chief.
You have told your coachman to leave the city by the Porta del Popolo, to drive round the walls, and re-enter by the Porta San Giovanni?"
"I have not that honor."
Twelve hours' delay was all that was granted-that is, until nine the next morning.
And yet their natural disposition revealed itself.
A cold perspiration burst from every pore, and his hair stood on end.
The old man remained motionless; he felt that some great and unforeseen misfortune hung over his head.
The curate, astonished at his quickness and intelligence, made him a present of pens, paper, and a penknife.
After some time Cucumetto became the object of universal attention; the most extraordinary traits of ferocious daring and brutality were related of him.
He repeated his question.
"Excellency," cried the cicerone, seeing Franz approach the window, "shall I bring the carriage nearer to the palace?"
"Do not give yourselves the trouble, excellency," returned Signor Pastrini, with the smile peculiar to the Italian speculator when he confesses defeat; "I will do all I can, and I hope you will be satisfied."
At the end of three months he had learned to read.
So that, thanks to her friend's generosity, Teresa was the most beautiful and the best attired peasant near Rome.
"One evening a wolf emerged from a pine wood hear which they were usually stationed, but the wolf had scarcely advanced ten yards ere he was dead.
The young girl's lover was in Cucumetto's troop; his name was Carlini.
Then, when they had finished, they cast the earth over the corpse, until the grave was filled.
What could you do against a dozen bandits who spring out of some pit, ruin, or aqueduct, and level their pieces at you?"
"These are my words exactly."
'At nine o'clock to morrow Rita's father will be here with the money.'--'It is well; in the meantime, we will have a merry night; this young girl is charming, and does credit to your taste.
Rita lay between them.
The moon lighted the group.
'Here,' said he, to Cucumetto, 'here are three hundred piastres; give me back my child.
But Carlini would not quit the forest, without knowing what had become of Rita's father.
Suddenly the daylight began to fade away; Franz took out his watch-it was half past four.
The curate related the incident to the Count of San Felice, who sent for the little shepherd, made him read and write before him, ordered his attendant to let him eat with the domestics, and to give him two piastres a month.
However, as he was a favorite with Cucumetto, as he had for three years faithfully served him, and as he had saved his life by shooting a dragoon who was about to cut him down, he hoped the chief would have pity on him.
The child accepted joyfully. Every day Luigi led his flock to graze on the road that leads from Palestrina to Borgo; every day, at nine o'clock in the morning, the priest and the boy sat down on a bank by the wayside, and the little shepherd took his lesson out of the priest's breviary.
"Not out of my armory, for at Terracina I was plundered even of my hunting knife."
"Here it is," said he.
"Your excellency knows that it is not customary to defend yourself when attacked by bandits."
An hour after the vehicle was at the door; it was a hack conveyance which was elevated to the rank of a private carriage in honor of the occasion, but, in spite of its humble exterior, the young men would have thought themselves happy to have secured it for the last three days of the Carnival.
"Cucumetto departed, without losing sight of Carlini, for, doubtless, he feared lest he should strike him unawares; but nothing betrayed a hostile design on Carlini's part.
He found a young shepherd watching his flock.
They told ten other stories of this bandit chief, each more singular than the other.
Cucumetto stopped at last, and pointed to two persons grouped at the foot of a tree.
"Go on, Signor Pastrini," continued Franz, smiling at his friend's susceptibility.
But he was unable to complete this oath, for two days afterwards, in an encounter with the Roman carbineers, Carlini was killed.
He inquired where they were, and was answered by a burst of laughter.
"'Well,' said Cucumetto, 'have you executed your commission?'
"Let us hear the history," said Franz, motioning Signor Pastrini to seat himself.
"Yes, and at his age, Alexander, Caesar, and Napoleon, who have all made some noise in the world, were quite behind him."
It was Rita's father, who brought his daughter's ransom in person.
Now, as I am not egotistical, we will return to our comrades and draw lots for her.'--'You have determined, then, to abandon her to the common law?' said Carlini.
"On account of the famous Luigi Vampa."
They returned to the hotel; at the door Franz ordered the coachman to be ready at eight.
The brigands have never been really extirpated from the neighborhood of Rome.
He went toward the place where he had left him.
"'Why should an exception be made in her favor?'
"Well, Signor Pastrini," said Franz, "now that my companion is quieted, and you have seen how peaceful my intentions are, tell me who is this Luigi Vampa.
"I forewarn you, Signor Pastrini, that I shall not believe one word of what you are going to tell us; having told you this, begin."
The inn keeper turned to Franz with an air that seemed to say, "Your friend is decidedly mad."
This, however, was nothing to a sculptor like Vampa; he examined the broken stock, calculated what change it would require to adapt the gun to his shoulder, and made a fresh stock, so beautifully carved that it would have fetched fifteen or twenty piastres, had he chosen to sell it.
At the end of the dinner he entered in person.
Come, sit down, and tell us all about this Signor Vampa."
Many young men of Palestrina, Frascati, and Pampinara had disappeared.
The day was passed at Saint Peter's alone.
"Scarcely so much."
With this, Luigi purchased books and pencils. He applied his imitative powers to everything, and, like Giotto, when young, he drew on his slate sheep, houses, and trees.
They sat down to dinner. Signor Pastrini had promised them a banquet; he gave them a tolerable repast.
"It is the same thing.
These were the first tears the man of blood had ever wept.
"Count," returned Signor Pastrini, hurt at Albert's repeated doubts of the truth of his assertions, "I do not say this to you, but to your companion, who knows Rome, and knows, too, that these things are not to be laughed at."
Her head hung back, and her long hair swept the ground.
"No; and your excellencies will do well not to think of that any longer; at Rome things can or cannot be done; when you are told anything cannot be done, there is an end of it."
Then, extending his hand, the old man said; 'I thank you, my son; and now leave me alone.'--'Yet'--replied Carlini.--'Leave me, I command you.' Carlini obeyed, rejoined his comrades, folded himself in his cloak, and soon appeared to sleep as soundly as the rest.
When quite a child, the little Vampa displayed a most extraordinary precocity.
The two brigands looked at each other for a moment-the one with a smile of lasciviousness on his lips, the other with the pallor of death on his brow.
he is only two and twenty;--he will gain himself a reputation."
Proud of this exploit, Vampa took the dead animal on his shoulders, and carried him to the farm.
He took Cucumetto one side, while the young girl, seated at the foot of a huge pine that stood in the centre of the forest, made a veil of her picturesque head dress to hide her face from the lascivious gaze of the bandits.
At length he advanced toward the group, the meaning of which he could not comprehend.
Then they knelt on each side of the grave, and said the prayers of the dead.
"But if your excellency doubt my veracity"--
"To what class of society does he belong?"
The next day they kept their word, and thus they grew up together.
He continued to follow the path to the glade; but, to his great surprise, Carlini arrived almost as soon as himself.
"You intend visiting Il Colosseo."
"This," replied Signor Pastrini, "that you will go out by one, but I very much doubt your returning by the other."
"Excellency," said Pastrini, "I am delighted to have your approbation, but it was not for that I came."
Then, when they had thus passed the day in building castles in the air, they separated their flocks, and descended from the elevation of their dreams to the reality of their humble position.
The two children grew up together, passing all their time with each other, and giving themselves up to the wild ideas of their different characters. Thus, in all their dreams, their wishes, and their conversations, Vampa saw himself the captain of a vessel, general of an army, or governor of a province.
A large wound, extending from the temple to the mouth, was bleeding profusely. Diovalaccio, seeing himself thus favored by fortune, burst into a loud laugh.
Franz was the "excellency," the vehicle was the "carriage," and the Hotel de Londres was the "palace." The genius for laudation characteristic of the race was in that phrase.
"You could not apply to any one better able to inform you on all these points, for I knew him when he was a child, and one day that I fell into his hands, going from Ferentino to Alatri, he, fortunately for me, recollected me, and set me free, not only without ransom, but made me a present of a very splendid watch, and related his history to me."
"Well, then, he is a bandit, compared to whom the Decesaris and the Gasparones were mere children."
Cucumetto had been there, however, by accident, as he said, and had carried the maiden off.
Every one looked at Carlini; the sheath at his belt was empty.
The bandit's laws are positive; a young girl belongs first to him who carries her off, then the rest draw lots for her, and she is abandoned to their brutality until death relieves her sufferings.
No other of the bandits would, perhaps, have done the same; but they all understood what Carlini had done.
"Dangerous!--and why?"
"Do you know, Signor Pastrini," said Albert, lighting a second cigar at the first, "that this practice is very convenient for bandits, and that it seems to be due to an arrangement of their own." Doubtless Signor Pastrini found this pleasantry compromising, for he only answered half the question, and then he spoke to Franz, as the only one likely to listen with attention.
"No, for it would be useless.
The host sat down, after having made each of them a respectful bow, which meant that he was ready to tell them all they wished to know concerning Luigi Vampa.
But nothing could be farther from his thoughts.
"I have."
"'What right have you, any more than the rest, to ask for an exception?'--'It is true.'--'But never mind,' continued Cucumetto, laughing, 'sooner or later your turn will come.' Carlini's teeth clinched convulsively.
Carlini returned, anxious to see his mistress, and announce the joyful intelligence.
"It is much more convenient at Paris,--when anything cannot be done, you pay double, and it is done directly."
Teresa was lively and gay, but coquettish to excess.
An hour before daybreak, Cucumetto aroused his men, and gave the word to march.
A knife was plunged up to the hilt in Rita's left breast.
"'I thought that my entreaties'--
As they entered the circle, the bandits could perceive, by the firelight, the unearthly pallor of the young girl and of Diavolaccio.
"Impossible!"
The two children met, sat down near each other, let their flocks mingle together, played, laughed, and conversed together; in the evening they separated the Count of San Felice's flock from those of Baron Cervetri, and the children returned to their respective farms, promising to meet the next morning.
A terrible battle between the two men seemed imminent; but by degrees Carlini's features relaxed, his hand, which had grasped one of the pistols in his belt, fell to his side.
"'Now, then,' said Cucumetto, advancing towards the other bandits, 'are you coming?'--'I follow you.'
"It so happened that night that Cucumetto had sent Carlini to a village, so that he had been unable to go to the place of meeting.
"Well, go on." Signor Pastrini turned toward Franz, who seemed to him the more reasonable of the two; we must do him justice,--he had had a great many Frenchmen in his house, but had never been able to comprehend them.
He found the troop in the glade, supping off the provisions exacted as contributions from the peasants; but his eye vainly sought Rita and Cucumetto among them.
The two piastres that Luigi received every month from the Count of San Felice's steward, and the price of all the little carvings in wood he sold at Rome, were expended in ear rings, necklaces, and gold hairpins.
"In an hour it will be at the door."
"Is he tall or short?"
The boy undertook the commission, promising to be in Frosinone in less than an hour.
"Why?" asked Franz.
Vampa was twelve, and Teresa eleven.
At the end of three months he had learned to write.
He was standing, his arms folded, near Rita, who was still insensible.
"But," said Franz, in his turn interrupting his host's meditations, "you had some motive for coming here, may I beg to know what it was?"
"A young man?
'Now,' said the old man, 'aid me to bury my child.' Carlini fetched two pickaxes; and the father and the lover began to dig at the foot of a huge oak, beneath which the young girl was to repose.
Only their wish to see each other had become a necessity, and they would have preferred death to a day's separation.
These exploits had gained Luigi considerable reputation.
"And pray," asked Franz, "where are these pistols, blunderbusses, and other deadly weapons with which you intend filling the carriage?"
'I expected thee,' said the bandit to Rita's father.--'Wretch!' returned the old man, 'what hast thou done?' and he gazed with terror on Rita, pale and bloody, a knife buried in her bosom.
This demanded new effort, but nothing compared to the first; at the end of a week he wrote as well with this pen as with the stylus.
The old man obeyed.
In every country where independence has taken the place of liberty, the first desire of a manly heart is to possess a weapon, which at once renders him capable of defence or attack, and, by rendering its owner terrible, often makes him feared.
"I shared the same fate at Aquapendente."
The man of superior abilities always finds admirers, go where he will.
"Now go," returned Franz, "or I shall go myself and bargain with your affettatore, who is mine also; he is an old friend of mine, who has plundered me pretty well already, and, in the hope of making more out of me, he will take a less price than the one I offer you; you will lose the preference, and that will be your fault."
"Excellency," said he gravely, addressing Franz, "if you look upon me as a liar, it is useless for me to say anything; it was for your interest!"--
This gun had an excellent barrel, made at Breschia, and carrying a ball with the precision of an English rifle; but one day the count broke the stock, and had then cast the gun aside.
"Their demand was fair, and the chief inclined his head in sign of acquiescence.
A ray of moonlight poured through the trees, and lighted up the face of the dead.--'Cucumetto had violated thy daughter,' said the bandit; 'I loved her, therefore I slew her; for she would have served as the sport of the whole band.' The old man spoke not, and grew pale as death.
"Well, this route is impossible."
Cucumetto fancied for a moment the young man was about to take her in his arms and fly; but this mattered little to him now Rita had been his; and as for the money, three hundred piastres distributed among the band was so small a sum that he cared little about it.
"Never."
"Once upon a time"--
"So," continued Franz, "the hero of this history is only two and twenty?"
It had been resolved the night before to change their encampment.
"Signor Pastrini," returned Franz, "you are more susceptible than Cassandra, who was a prophetess, and yet no one believed her; while you, at least, are sure of the credence of half your audience.
This was not enough-he must now learn to write.
The names of all, including Carlini, were placed in a hat, and the youngest of the band drew forth a ticket; the ticket bore the name of Diovolaccio.
"'Yes, captain,' returned Carlini.
"Because, after nightfall, you are not safe fifty yards from the gates."
"Your excellencies permit it?" asked the host.
"And now we understand each other."
The old man recognized his child, and Carlini recognized the old man.
At midnight the sentinel gave the alarm, and in an instant all were on the alert.
"Very dangerous, to say the least."
When she recognized her lover, the poor girl extended her arms to him, and believed herself safe; but Carlini felt his heart sink, for he but too well knew the fate that awaited her.
"Albert does not say you are a liar, Signor Pastrini," said Franz, "but that he will not believe what you are going to tell us,--but I will believe all you say; so proceed."
Beside his taste for the fine arts, which Luigi had carried as far as he could in his solitude, he was given to alternating fits of sadness and enthusiasm, was often angry and capricious, and always sarcastic.
And yet the two young people had never declared their affection; they had grown together like two trees whose roots are mingled, whose branches intertwined, and whose intermingled perfume rises to the heavens.
Their disappearance at first caused much disquietude; but it was soon known that they had joined Cucumetto.
The instant the letter was written, Carlini seized it, and hastened to the plain to find a messenger.
"In an hour."
Perhaps his curious power was never more noticeable than in the case of the Withan murder.
I'm tired, Wigan; but it was safer not to keep the carriage."
A few days later Quarles telegraphed me to meet him at Kings Cross, and we traveled North together.
Tied together, and secured in a network of string, were five or six human heads, blackened, shriveled faces, which seemed to grin horribly as they swung deeply from side to side, lit up by the flicker of the flames.
To our left, toward what was evidently the extremity of the park, was hilly ground, which had been allowed to run wild.
It was dark, the long shed barely discernible, but the professor was particular about our position.
My theory seems absurd.
Now this year he was in England; illness had kept him to his house yonder, but he was well enough to get out at the fatal time, and the insane desire proved irresistible.
I caught a glimpse of white hair, but he took no position in which I could see his face clearly.
"Eventually to the high road, which runs almost at right angles to the Withan road."
"I am not sure yet.
By walking along this the murderer might have left the wood without leaving tracks behind him."
"Much water in the ditch?" asked Quarles.
"Full, or near it," I returned.
He had become keen, like a dog on the trail, and, old as he was, seemed incapable of fatigue.
In the darkness before the dawn the man moved about the shed again, and presently I heard him go.
I know that in many of them I was credited with having unraveled the mystery, but this was only because Professor Quarles persisted in remaining in the background.
"That is our way," he said.
I cannot attempt to say how long we had waited in utter silence when Quarles touched my arm.
I felt convinced that the man's clothes, which were shown to me, had not been made in England.
Then the man moved the wooden block to the side of the fire and sat down facing us, the flickering flames throwing a red glow over him.
"Couldn't keep him waiting all night, as we may have to do," said Quarles.
That would account for the foreign cut of his clothes.
That is how it came about that I obtained credit which I did not deserve.
"January the seventeenth."
For an hour-two, three, I don't know how long-that horrible bundle swung over the fire, and the man sat on his block of wood, staring straight before him.
Footprints, nearly obliterated, were traceable to a wood on the opposite side of the road, but no one seemed to have left the wood in any direction.
The cave part had a rough, sandy floor, and here was a long shed of peculiar construction. It was raised on piles, about eight feet high; the front part formed a kind of open veranda, the back part being closed in.
In a few moments we were on the roof.
The fire flickered lower and went out.
Your life is likely to depend upon it.
A pit I call it, but it was as much a cave as a pit, part of it running deeply into the earth, and only about a third of it being open to the sky.
We took rooms at a hotel in Medworth, Quarles explaining that our investigations might take some days.
My friend and I are going to walk back."
In a corner of the wall, or, to be more precise, filling up a rent in it, was a shed, roughly built, but with a door secured by a very business like lock.
Without help from me he dropped from the roof, and I followed him.
"We'll go carefully," said Quarles.
"How have you learnt all this?"
"I think there would have been other heads missing if he had been," Quarles answered.
"Five or six miles.
We were trespassers in a private park.
The shed, with its slanting roof, served to block a narrow, overgrown path between two precipitous chalk walls.
We plunged into the wood again, and were soon in the wilderness, forcing our way, sometimes with considerable difficulty, through the undergrowth.
As the flames brightened I watched his restless figure.
I think we are alone here, but keep your ears open."
"We might come up against danger if my theory is correct.
"We'll use what cover we can."
"Wait," he said when I began to question him.
There were many fantastic answers to the question.
And where would that ditch lead him?"
I never mention my theories until I have some facts to support them.
By evening the clouds had gone, the moon sailed in a clear sky, and, looking round to find the cause of his horse's unusual behavior, the farmer saw a man lying on a heap of snow under the opposite hedge.
"You think----"
"We must get onto the veranda for a moment.
"Wigan, it would be interesting to know if a similar murder occurred anywhere in the intervening year at that date," said Quarles.
I found such a man in Sir Henry Buckingham.
"As I expected," said Quarles, with some excitement.
He had evidently some definite goal, and I was conscious of excitement as I followed him.
Someone was coming, and with no particular stealth.
It was not much help he wanted.
"No; it was near the Withan end of it that the dead man was found."
They were all cases with peculiar features in them, and it was never as a detective that Quarles approached them.
"We're trespassers, but we must take our chance.
"Not clearly."
He realized that he was a stranger, and attacked him."
I told you I was not certain of my theory.
"I do sometimes," he said, tapping his pocket.
"That's another good point, Wigan," chuckled Quarles.
"We go there again this evening," he said after lunch next day; "so a restful afternoon will suit us."
"Any traces that the head was carried to the wood?"
"Of course, the head may be buried in the wood," said Zena.
"We may have to creep a little nearer presently," he whispered.
That it was French I could not possibly affirm, but it might be, and so I fashioned a fragile link with the Normandy crime.
I think the murderer must have taken the head with him."
The likeness between the two crimes can hardly be a coincidence."
"On the bench yesterday.
They were poor, worn almost threadbare, but they had once been fairly good, and the cut was not English.
"That night.
"Do you see?"
Truth to tell, I was not there for his opinion, but to see his granddaughter.
I had a great desire to rush from my hiding place and seize him, and I waited, expecting some further revelation, listening for other footsteps.
These were the points known and conjectured when the case came into my hands, and my investigations added little to them.
It was not found, however, and the countryside was in a state bordering on panic.
As an excuse I talked over cases with him, but he seldom volunteered an opinion, often was obviously uninterested.
"But the head?"
One point, however, impressed me.
From our new point of view I looked again.
He was always as secret as the grave until he had proved his theory, and then he seemed anxious to forget the whole affair, and shrank from publicity.
He was often as astonished at my acumen in following a clew as I was at his marvelous theories, which seemed so absurd to begin with yet proved correct in the end.
"Wigan, do you see?" whispered Quarles.
On this occasion I went to Quarles with the object of interesting him in the Withan case, and he forestalled me by beginning to talk about it the moment I entered the room.
"I think the shed is climbable," said Quarles.
The natural passage was winding, and about fifty yards long, and opened into another pit of some size.
It's a deal nearer as the crow flies."
"No, it runs beside the road for two or three hundred yards."
We crept forward and concealed ourselves among the scrub vegetation which grew in that part of the pit which was open to the sky.
"Why carrying a bag?" asked Quarles.
We are going to find out if it is."
Yet his history coincided with my theory.
He was well dressed, and a man who would be likely to carry papers with him, but nothing was found, and the murder had remained a mystery.
To our right was a large house, only partially seen through its screen of trees, but it was evidently mellow with age.
To this Quarles pointed.
I heard him moving about for some time.
"To bury somewhere else?" asked Quarles.
It seemed probable that the murderer had come upon his victim secretly, that the foul deed had been committed with horrible expedition, otherwise the victim, although not a strong man, would have made some struggle for his life, and apparently no struggle had taken place.
For a few days the Withan murder seemed unique in atrocities, and then came a communication from the French police.
The coachman pocketed his money and drove away.
And keep your ears open to make sure no one is following us."
After walking along the road for about a mile Quarles scrambled through a hedge into a wood by the roadside.
"You have a theory, professor?"
"There was a moon that night, wasn't there?"
"There may be worse than poachers' traps here."
"I think we are first, but great care is necessary," he whispered.
In the dark he had evidently got fuel, and had started a fire on the stone slab.
"Yes."
Once or twice the professor gave me a warning gesture, but he did not speak.
The ground in the wood was searched at the time, and I have been over it carefully since.
If I tell you to shoot-shoot, and quickly.
He was going forward again.
"I said I wasn't certain," he whispered when our path had led us into a damp hollow which looked as if it had not been visited by man for centuries.
Why should a head be required?
Another point, both these murders happened at the time of the full moon.
The hollow was surrounded by perpendicular walls of sand and chalk; it was a pit, in fact, which Nature had filled with vegetation.
"As I thought," he said.
Quarles looked at me inquiringly.
His calmness almost exasperated me, but he would answer no questions until we had returned to our hotel and had breakfast.
Moonlight was presently above us, throwing the cave part of the pit into greater shadow than ever.
"From here we can do so.
My association with Christopher Quarles has, however, led to the solution of some strange mysteries, and, since my own achievements are sufficiently well known, I may confine myself to those cases which, single handed, I should have failed to solve.
The road winds a lot.
"The foreign cut of the clothes may be of importance," he said.
It was not until some days later that the case came into my hands, and in the interval the local authorities had not been idle.
"One or two doubtful places I had dug up.
It was getting dark when we set out, and again Quarles's unerring sense of locality astonished me.
In this case also the head was missing, and nothing had been found upon the body to identify the victim.
The next afternoon he arranged a drive.
He was cunning too.
"I am not sure.
The man's face was familiar, but just then I could not remember who he was.
If I did the spade work, the deductions were his.
"With the head in it," she answered.
"Half a foot when I went there.
Carefully."
"A man who had walked a considerable distance in a ditch would be wet and muddy," said Zena, "and if he were met on the road carrying a bag he would arrest attention."
"We can do that later.
Through one part of the wood there runs a ditch, which is continued as a division between two fields which form part of the farm land behind the wood.
From somewhere at the back of the shed he pushed forward a block of wood, and, standing on this, he fixed something to the short chain I had noted yesterday.
"His mother was eccentric.
"Nothing."
"You need not wait for us, driver.
I went carefully through the case point by point, and he made no comment until I had finished.
"We'll get away quickly," said Quarles.
I had dashed aside the curtain, and I threw myself upon the burglar just in time to prevent his picking up his weapon with his left hand. He struggled fiercely, and I was glad of Tresman's help in securing him, although the doctor had come perilously near to losing his life by his unexpected intrusion.
"Come, now, if it means a rough and tumble, I should back myself against you," laughed Tresman, drawing himself up to his full inches.
"His manner was curious.
They were of a cheap American brand, had not been taken from Sir Joseph's box, which contained only Turkish ones, and, although they had apparently been thrown down carelessly, there was no ash upon the carpet nor anywhere else.
No one had moved about the house during the night, so apparently there had been nothing to disturb them.
That was my first question, as I told you.
The burglars appeared to have given all their attention to Sir Joseph's room, which was in a state of confusion.
But now and then his attention was closer, and at intervals he seemed puzzled, standing quite still, his hands raised, a finger touching his head, almost as a low comedian does when he wishes the audience to realize that he is in deep thought.
They had got in by a passage window at the back-not a very difficult matter-and had evidently gone to the dining room and helped themselves to spirits from a tantalus which was on the sideboard.
You still think that?
There was the link.
One small cabinet, which might possess a secret hiding place, he broke with the chisel, and I noticed that whenever a drawer was locked his scrutiny of the contents was more careful.
"Presumably something a doctor is likely to have," I said.
I daresay you know, Wigan, there is an annual published giving particulars of all the hospitals, with the names of the medical staff, consulting surgeons and physicians, and so forth.
"Call for me to morrow morning; we are going to pay a visit together. We may be too late, but I hope not.
He was looking for something of which a doctor at this hospital had robbed him, as he imagined, and, not knowing which doctor, looked at this annual and began at the first name.
We had decided that the most likely means of entry was by a window at the end of the hall, and we expected our prey to enter the room by the door.
"Exactly," I answered.
The ray from his lantern swung about the room for a moment, then he switched on the electric light.
This was the obvious explanation, but it did not satisfy me.
Whatever it is the thief is seeking for, he is desperately anxious to obtain it-witness his two attempts on consecutive nights."
"Wait," said Quarles.
The professor shook his head.
The next moment he almost trod upon me.
A safe which stood in a corner had been broken open.
Of course the thieves might have been disturbed, but there were certain points against this idea.
Apparently, having put it ready for use, he had forgotten to take it away.
Round counters-doctors.
We don't want to have to commit burglary ourselves in order to catch the thief."
Assuming this to be the work of an amateur, to what definite point does it lead you?"
"No, that would have scattered them more.
For just a fraction of time I realized that the burglar meant to shoot the intruder without a word of warning, and for a moment I seemed unable to utter a sound.
"Quickly, Wigan!" Quarles cried.
"No, but all cheap American ones."
He said he had not, was inclined to laugh at my question, and proceeded to inform me that he had no family skeleton, had no part in any Government secret, had never been in touch with any mysterious society, and had no papers giving any valuable details of scientific experiments upon which he was engaged.
"It creeps into my brain."
It means that opportunity has been lacking.
"There is a suggestion to my mind of amateurishness in the affair.
Naturally I was not idle during the next few days, but at the end of them I had learnt nothing.
It seemed, however, that the burglar must have heard her moving about and had been prepared to defend himself, for a revolver, loaded in every chamber, was found on one of the cabinets.
Then there is only his own statement that nothing has been taken.
Had he any document which, for private or public reasons, someone might be anxious to obtain?
The cigarette ends, the dirty glasses, and the biscuit crumbs seem to me rather gratuitous deceptions, and----"
"You assume a little too much.
When a mystery was cleared up, it was easy to say that Zena had put him on the right road, and I considered it a whim of his more than anything else.
They were round, and might have fallen over after having been put one upon another as one gathers coppers together when counting a number of them.
"I've read every report, but tell me yourself-every detail."
However obscure a mystery may be, there is always some point or circumstance which, if rightly interpreted, will lead to its solution. Even in those crimes which have never been elucidated this point exists, only it has never been duly appreciated.
"I admit I might not have got upon the right track had you not made that discovery.
He did not make any movement to switch off the light, he did not attempt to conceal himself.
Nonsense!" said the professor sharply.
"What is the opinion you have formed about it, Wigan?" he said.
By arrangement, the house retired to rest early.
He just raised his arm and pointed the revolver toward the door, on a level at which the bullet would strike the head of a man of average height.
I remembered the counters in Sir Joseph's room, and wished we had thought to place some in here to see what he would have done with them.
Then I shouted:
We were anxious to reproduce the circumstances of the burglary at Sir Joseph Maynard's as nearly as possible, for Quarles declared it was impossible to say what significance there might be in the man's every action.
In fact, although nothing had been taken, the damage was considerable.
When I questioned Sir Joseph about his papers his manner seemed curious, as I have said.
It was his way of showing that he was my superior-at least, it always impressed me like this.
But I did not understand their significance at first."
"True.
I had not heard a sound in the house, but he had.
Moreover, the cigarette ends and the dirty glasses suggested a certain leisurely method of going to work, and men of this kind would not be easily frightened.
"The amateur constantly overlooks the obvious," I answered.
On the night of the burglary dr Wood was away from home, only servants being in the house.
"Why should you think so?"
"It did not seem to help you to a theory," I answered.
And that is where the counters help me-or I think they do."
Nothing had been stolen, but everything in his room was in disorder, and a small and unique inlaid cabinet with a secret spring lock had been smashed to pieces.
dr Tresman was a man in the prime of life, and evidently believed himself capable of dealing with any thieves who visited him.
"I cannot say it did.
"And you are right," he snapped.
"You know that as well as I do.
So far as Sir Joseph could tell, not a thing had been taken.
Of course you may keep watch, and I shall be within call should you want help."
On consecutive nights two doctors' houses were burgled.
The floor was covered with things, and I fancy they happened to be in his way, that was all."
Nothing happened.
The guests left early, and soon after midnight the household had retired.
"The counters were in a heap," I said.
"No, no; the expected," he said impatiently, and he pointed to a heap of newspapers.
His method was systematic.
"Back for your life!"
"For all that, you may be glad of my muscle when it comes to the point," was the answer.
There was no sign of doubt in his attitude, which was of a most uncompromising character.
Only one had been drunk out of, and probably a little of the liquid had been emptied out of this into the other two.
Sir Joseph picked them up and put them on the writing table while he was talking to me."
The handle was turned, and the door began to open.
It was discovery from without that he was afraid of.
"A very important point, and a reasonable conclusion, I fancy," said Quarles.
If a drawer were locked, he pried it open.
Two cupboards and every drawer had been turned out and the contents thrown about in all directions.
"If you are right, it narrows the sphere of inquiry-narrows it very much, taken with the other facts of the case."
Neither Sir Joseph nor Lady Maynard nor any of the servants were disturbed during the night, but next morning it was found that burglars had entered.
"Sudden temptation or necessity may subvert the highest character," I answered.
Three glasses, with a little of the liquor left in them, were on the table, and near them were some biscuit crumbs. There were several silver articles on the sideboard, but these had not been touched.
So slowly did time go that half the night seemed to have passed when I heard a neighboring church clock strike one, and almost directly afterward the door of the room was opened stealthily and was shut again.
The next night we were on the watch again, concealed as before.
"Why do you expect this particular doctor will be visited?" I asked.
We might have missed much that was interesting.
He evidently expected that the man he was robbing would value the thing he was looking for, and would be likely to hide it securely.
Then the unexpected happened.
He did, and visited two other doctors.
There was a curious eagerness in his face as he bent down and opened his bag, taking a thin chisel from it, and from his hip pocket he took a revolver.
"No, I hold to the one man theory."
"How?"
I questioned Sir Joseph about his papers.
All this silver was upon the floor, also the bag of money intact.
"I do not understand the case now," I confessed, "except that we have caught a mad burglar."
It might implicate Sir Joseph, it might not.
I grant the safe was not a difficult one to break open, but it had not been done in a very expert manner.
His often repeated statement that she helped him by her questions had never impressed me very greatly.
"Did that strike you as significant?" asked Quarles.
For some time I could not make out what kind of article it was to which he gave special attention, but presently noticed that anything in ivory or bone interested him, especially if it were circular.
They would have deceived nine men out of ten-you happen to be the tenth man.
I told him that the man we expected was no ordinary thief.
Imagination carries one to the hills, and shows something of that truth which lies behind what we call truth."
I found him ready and waiting for me next morning, as eager to be on the trail as a dog in leash.
It could not be chance that the burglar had visited these men in exact order, so I argued that he would next go to dr Tresman.
He had several cabinets in his room containing specimens, and everything had been turned on to the floor and damaged more or less.
These preliminaries seemed stereotyped ones, and he appeared glad to be done with them.
"Did Sir Joseph Maynard burgle his own house?"
His almost superhuman power of recognizing this key clew was the foundation of Christopher Quarles's success, and his solution of the mysterious burglaries which caused such speculation for a time was not the least of his achievements.
Much depended upon the answer.
dr Wheatley had taken some part in local politics which had made him unpopular with certain people, and he was inclined to consider the burglary one of revenge rather than intended robbery.
The first was in Kensington.
It was like Christopher Quarles to raise my curiosity, and then to leave it unsatisfied.
"You forget that days have elapsed since Sir Joseph's was broken into."
If my idea were correct, it would mean that they had been put there on purpose to mislead.
You noted how keen he was with every piece of bone he could find, how irritable he was growing.
That he was interested was shown by our adjournment to the empty room, and he did not ask a question until I had finished my story.
That is why I said we must wait.
"Forget?
Now, what is he looking for?"
Sir Joseph Maynard, the eminent physician of Harley Street, had given a small dinner party one evening.
The cigarette box he did not touch, but he took some cigarette ends from his pocket and threw them on the floor.
Watching him closely, I was aware that he became more irritable as he proceeded.
"Something in bone or ivory."
"Yes."
Then he broke off a piece of biscuit, crumbled it in his hands, and scattered the crumbs beside the glasses.
Had the thief found what he was looking for?
Did you see how he touched his head several times to night?"
"Thank heaven that fool Tresman didn't come sooner!
"That gives the explanation, I think," said Quarles.
Nothing has happened to make you change that opinion?"
He laid the revolver ready to his hand upon the piece of furniture he was examining.
He had worked round half the room when he suddenly stopped, and, with a quick movement, took up the revolver.
This was the story I told to Professor Quarles and his granddaughter. I went to him at once, feeling that the case was just one of those in which his theoretical method was likely to be useful.
"To this question," I replied.
"The unexpected has happened," I said.
Half a dozen cigarette ends had been thrown down upon the carpet, and a small box containing some round counters lay broken by the writing table.
The next five seconds were full of happenings.
The thief has tried again-twice.
I did so.
Some of the contents he hardly looked at.
He showed no disappointment, nor any sign that his theory had received a shock.
If the thief had not found what he wanted, he would continue his search, I argued.
Indeed, most of the contents did not interest him.
The doctor was furious at the wanton destruction of his specimens, and, being irascible and suspicious, fancied the revolver was merely a blind and that the culprit was some jealous medical man.
"I think there was only one burglar, but for some reason he thought it important that it should be believed there were more."
The cigarette ends puzzled me.
We must wait; for the moment there is nothing to be done."
Yet I owe him much, and there is no gainsaying his marvelous deductions.
"That may be true, but we have also got to consider the man's character.
Until that moment I had not heard a sound in the house, and I was not certain that anyone had entered the room even now, until I saw a tiny disk, the end of a ray of light, on the wall.
The silver on the floor was scattered, not gathered together ready to take away as I should have expected to find it, and it looked as if it had been thrown aside carelessly, as though it were not what the thieves were in search of; and surely, had they left in a hurry, the bag of money would have been taken.
"You had better leave it to us, doctor," said Quarles, who, for the purpose of this interview, posed as my assistant.
"Nor counters, I suppose," I interrupted.
"The same brand of cigarettes?" he asked.
I had become so accustomed to Quarles jumping to some sudden conclusion that I was disappointed.
The counters, Wigan, they were the clew.
"I think that would entirely depend on the man's temperament, professor."
"A character like that," he said to himself-"a real little passionate force to see at play is the finest thing in nature.
"Whenever she executes them," said Ralph, "may I be there to see!"
Most women did with themselves nothing at all; they waited, in attitudes more or less gracefully passive, for a man to come that way and furnish them with a destiny.
After he had known her for a week he quite made up his mind to this, and every day he felt a little more sure.
Lord Warburton not only spent the night at Gardencourt, but he was persuaded to remain over the second day; and when the second day was ended he determined to postpone his departure till the morrow.
"I don't know what's the matter with you," she observed to him once; "but I suspect you're a great humbug."
Young girls here-in decent houses-don't sit alone with the gentlemen late at night."
She touches nothing that she doesn't adorn!"
American?
It must be said that her wit was exercised to a large extent in self defence, for her cousin amused himself with calling her "Columbia" and accusing her of a patriotism so heated that it scorched.
"If I could believe even that, I should be very glad."
Wasn't it proper I should remain in the drawing room?"
Ralph will light my candle," Isabel gaily engaged.
"It's very nice to know two such charming people as those," she said, meaning by "those" her cousin and her cousin's friend.
Lord Warburton had been right about her; she was a really interesting little figure.
I had never been more blue, more bored, than for a week before she came; I had never expected less that anything pleasant would happen.
You're not-you're not at your blest Albany, my dear."
But if he had expected anything of a flare he was disappointed, for the girl simply laughed a little, nodded good night and withdrew accompanied by her aunt.
"I shall always tell you," her aunt answered, "whenever I see you taking what seems to me too much liberty."
During this period he addressed many of his remarks to Isabel, who accepted this evidence of his esteem with a very good grace.
"My dear mrs Touchett!" Lord Warburton murmured.
He had been watching her; it had seemed to him her temper was involved-an accident that might be interesting.
Just now he appeared disburdened of pain, but Ralph could not rid himself of a suspicion that this was a subterfuge of the enemy, who was waiting to take him off his guard.
These were nice questions, but Isabel's arrival put a stop to his puzzling over them.
Above stairs the two ladies separated at mrs Touchett's door.
My point of view, thank God, is personal!"
mrs Touchett fixed her bright little eyes upon him a moment and transferred them coldly to her niece.
The key of a beautiful edifice is thrust into my hand, and I'm told to walk in and admire.
"When you criticise everything here you should have a point of view.
It's finer than the finest work of art-than a Greek bas relief, than a great Titian, than a Gothic cathedral.
But it is by no means certain that she did not feel it to be wrong that so little notice was taken of them and that her failure (really very gratuitous) to make herself important in the neighbourhood had not much to do with the acrimony of her allusions to her husband's adopted country.
"So as to do them?" asked her aunt.
"I care for nothing but you, dear cousin," said Ralph.
He bethought himself of course that it had been a small kindness to his father to wish that, of the two, the active rather than the passive party should know the felt wound; he remembered that the old man had always treated his own forecast of an early end as a clever fallacy, which he should be delighted to discredit so far as he might by dying first.
mr Touchett was confined to his chair, and his wife's position was that of rather a grim visitor; so that in the line of conduct that opened itself to Ralph duty and inclination were harmoniously mixed.
You're too fond of your own ways."
The fortunate Lord Warburton exchanged a handshake with our heroine and hoped she was very well.
She flattered herself that she was a very just woman, and had mastered the sovereign truth that nothing in this world is got for nothing.
Isabel always felt an impulse to pull out the pins; not that she imagined they inflicted any damage on the tough old parchment, but because it seemed to her her aunt might make better use of her sharpness.
If the manoeuvre should succeed there would be little hope of any great resistance.
"Pray do; but I don't say I shall always think your remonstrance just."
She had, however, a peculiar taste; she liked to receive cards.
So, without further thought, she replied, very simply-
"Ah, he has a good excuse for everything!" cried Lord Warburton, still with his sonorous mirth.
She had hoped she should see him again-hoped too that she should see a few others.
mrs Touchett gave a little look of despair and sat down again.
It must be added moreover that an incident had occurred which might have seemed to put her good humour to the test.
"Can't I stay with my own cousin?" Isabel enquired.
"I'm not aware that Lord Warburton is your cousin."
Ralph meanwhile handed Isabel her candlestick.
"Yes, he's very nice.
Little, however, for the present, had come of his offers, and it may be confided to the reader that if the young man delayed to carry them out it was because he found the labour of providing for his companion by no means so severe as to require extraneous help.
"But I needn't ask that," he said, "since you've been handling the oars."
It seemed to her he was talking as a blind and had little heart in what he said.
For what is usually called social intercourse she had very little relish; but nothing pleased her more than to find her hall table whitened with oblong morsels of symbolic pasteboard.
"I'll light your candle; do let me light your candle, Miss Archer!" Lord Warburton exclaimed.
"Yes, I think I'm very fond of them.
She was very critical herself-it was incidental to her age, her sex and her nationality; but she was very sentimental as well, and there was something in mrs Touchett's dryness that set her own moral fountains flowing.
CHAPTER seven
"Perhaps I had better go to bed!" the visitor suggested.
"My excuse for not rowing is that my cousin rows so well," said Ralph. "She does everything well.
It's very pleasant to be so well treated where one had least looked for it.
"That's your privilege," Ralph answered, who had not been used to being so crudely addressed.
She found herself liking him extremely; the first impression he had made on her had had weight, but at the end of an evening spent in his society she scarce fell short of seeing him-though quite without luridity-as a hero of romance.
This question was irregular, for with most women one had no occasion to ask it.
Isabel considered.
It mattered little that he had assured her they were a very dismal place; she would have been glad to undertake to sweep them and set them in order.
"It has orders to play without stopping; it renders me two excellent services.
Isabel's originality was that she gave one an impression of having intentions of her own.
"Do you mean they're all like him?"
The old man had been gravely ill in the spring, and the doctors had whispered to Ralph that another attack would be less easy to deal with.
Gardencourt was not dull; the place itself was sovereign, her uncle was more and more a sort of golden grandfather, and Ralph was unlike any cousin she had ever encountered-her idea of cousins having tended to gloom.
Never in the world; that's shockingly narrow.
"It's impossible I should wait for you," mrs Touchett answered.
But I always want to know the things one shouldn't do."
It devolved upon him of course to do the honours of the place.
"I'm not vexed, but I'm surprised-and a good deal mystified.
If her good humour flagged at moments it was not because she thought herself ill used, but because she suddenly felt sorry for Ralph.
"I don't know what you care for; I don't think you care for anything. You don't really care for England when you praise it; you don't care for America even when you pretend to abuse it."
mr Touchett went to bed at half past nine o'clock, but his wife remained in the drawing room with the other members of the party. She prolonged her vigil for something less than an hour, and then, rising, observed to Isabel that it was time they should bid the gentlemen good night.
"You were very right to tell me then," said Isabel.
You may say that doesn't make them very numerous!
Isabel had spoken to him very often about "specimens;" it was a word that played a considerable part in her vocabulary; she had given him to understand that she wished to see English society illustrated by eminent cases.
Isabel had said nothing on her way up.
"I keep a band of music in my ante room," he said once to her.
Isabel, seeing him for half an hour on the day of her arrival, had discovered in this brief space that she liked him; he had indeed rather sharply registered himself on her fine sense and she had thought of him several times.
Isabel's chief dread in life at this period of her development was that she should appear narrow minded; what she feared next afterwards was that she should really be so.
But of the two triumphs, that of refuting a sophistical son and that of holding on a while longer to a state of being which, with all abatements, he enjoyed, Ralph deemed it no sin to hope the latter might be vouchsafed to mr Touchett.
Isabel rose, blushing.
"Oh no; they're not all like him."
I'll come up in half an hour."
Isabel enjoyed it largely and, handling the reins in a manner which approved itself to the groom as "knowing," was never weary of driving her uncle's capital horses through winding lanes and byways full of the rural incidents she had confidently expected to find; past cottages thatched and timbered, past ale houses latticed and sanded, past patches of ancient common and glimpses of empty parks, between hedgerows made thick by midsummer.
Ralph had always taken for granted that his father would survive him-that his own name would be the first grimly called.
When they reached home they usually found tea had been served on the lawn and that mrs Touchett had not shrunk from the extremity of handing her husband his cup.
"That will arrange it."
"Be touched in the right sense and you'll never look the worse for it," said Isabel, who, if it pleased her to hear it said that her accomplishments were numerous, was happily able to reflect that such complacency was not the indication of a feeble mind, inasmuch as there were several things in which she excelled.
She would be as American as it pleased him to regard her, and if he chose to laugh at her she would give him plenty of occupation. She defended England against his mother, but when Ralph sang its praises on purpose, as she said, to work her up, she found herself able to differ from him on a variety of points.
Then her impressions were still so fresh and so quickly renewed that there was as yet hardly a hint of vacancy in the view.
Isabel thought this a better answer than she admitted; it was a tolerable description of her own manner of judging, but it would not have sounded well for her to say so.
"Very likely not.
"Only I beg it shall not be before midnight."
He wondered whether he were harbouring "love" for this spontaneous young woman from Albany; but he judged that on the whole he was not.
Isabel might have believed it and not have been far from the truth.
Isabel presently found herself in the singular situation of defending the British constitution against her aunt; mrs Touchett having formed the habit of sticking pins into this venerable instrument.
Her cousin used, as the phrase is, to chaff her; he very soon established with her a reputation for treating everything as a joke, and he was not a man to neglect the privileges such a reputation conferred.
"Oh, I know he doesn't row; he's too lazy," said his lordship, indicating Ralph Touchett with a laugh.
"I've been rowing a little," Isabel answered; "but how should you know it?"
"Not in the least.
"I don't understand it, but I'm very glad to know it.
Yours doesn't seem to be American-you thought everything over there so disagreeable. When I criticise I have mine; it's thoroughly American!"
The father and son had been close companions, and the idea of being left alone with the remnant of a tasteless life on his hands was not gratifying to the young man, who had always and tacitly counted upon his elder's help in making the best of a poor business. At the prospect of losing his great motive Ralph lost indeed his one inspiration.
He thought a great deal about her; she was constantly present to his mind. At a time when his thoughts had been a good deal of a burden to him her sudden arrival, which promised nothing and was an open handed gift of fate, had refreshed and quickened them, given them wings and something to fly for.
"Oh, I say, mother!" Ralph broke out.
She was intelligent and generous; it was a fine free nature; but what was she going to do with herself?
For himself he was annoyed at his mother, though he thought she was right.
It was but half hospitality to let her remain outside; to punish him for which Isabel administered innumerable taps with the ferule of her straight young wit.
The two young persons, after spending an hour on the river, strolled back to the house and perceived Lord Warburton sitting under the trees and engaged in conversation, of which even at a distance the desultory character was appreciable, with mrs Touchett.
Ralph wondered how their neighbour had found it out so soon; and then he said it was only another proof of his friend's high abilities, which he had always greatly admired.
"A specimen of an English gentleman."
"I didn't make your country, my lord," mrs Touchett said majestically. "I must take it as I find it."
"A specimen of what?" asked the girl.
"Oh, that was nothing," said Polly, "such a little bit of a while doesn't count."
Polly took the time to study her headgear.
"What a bother," exclaimed Jasper, "it is to have so many different languages, anyway!"
"Well, it's too, too splendid for anything.
"Your stuivers went into the water.
"I'll leave that to you, Polly."
"And don't you ever do that again." And the hand was withdrawn, and the girl clattered off as fast as she could run in her wooden shoes.
"They want some stuivers," cried Jasper.
"So it did, Pet.
"Oh, Jasper, what pictures we'll take-and do see that woman's cap! and those pot hooks of hair over her eyes, and that funny, long dangling curl!"
"I didn't investigate," he said, laughing.
"Don't be sick, Grandpapa," she wailed, struggling with her tears.
"To be sure," said Jasper.
"Why didn't we think of it before?"
"Well, let us take pictures as fast as we can," suggested Jasper, "and then when we do come up with Adela, why you'll have yours done."
"Yes, and I took a picture of the saucy girl while she was trying to stop yours," said Jasper.
THE ISLAND OF MARKEN
As quick as a flash Polly focussed again, and was just touching the button, when a hand came in front of her kodak, and she saw the grinning face of a Marken girl under its pot hook of hair and with the long, dangling curl on one side, close to her own.
Come, Phronsie-goodness me!" as he saw how she was occupied.
"Dear me, did I?" said Polly.
"That's a good idea," said Jasper.
"And these houses," continued Polly, squinting up at a crooked row, "all colours-green stripes and black stripes-and, O dear me!
"Isn't this just richness?" exclaimed Polly, gazing all about her in an ecstasy.
"Polly, I wish we had a baby just like this," sighed Phronsie, giving motherly pats to the stout little legs dangling down from her lap.
"Well, maybe he has some; we'll think so, anyway," Polly answered.
Jasper King, just look at Phronsie!"
"It did, it did," crowed Phronsie, from her high perch.
"Well, it's funny anyway," she said, "that all the women and girls dress alike in those queer gowns in two parts, and those embroidered jackets over their waists, and those caps and horrible pot hooks and long curls."
"Oh, the mean little beggars!"
"It did, Jasper, go right straight down in the grass just like yours and Polly's."
"Well, I had then, but I've begun again," said Jasper, recklessly.
"Well, it's enough to make any one step backward to see such funny clothes; and they are hay making, Adela Gray, as sure as you live."
When the boat was nearing the island of Marken, the little yellow cheese had been presented with all due formality to one of the sailors who had been specially kind in the matter of securing good seats for mr King's party, Polly and Phronsie having held a whispered conference in a retired nook, to come out of it bright and smiling.
"She won't understand any better than the boys," said old mr King. "You forget, children, that these youngsters don't know our language."
There sat Phronsie on a grassy bank a little above them, with one of the fattest Marken babies in her lap.
I'm afraid he will be sick, Phronsie, if he is unhappy."
"Here, you boys, keep away; you've had enough; we're going to give this to the little girl," Jasper shouted to them as they threw coin after coin.
But the boys racing along in advance soon discovered this successful trick, and completely swarmed around her, howling dreadfully, so she hastened off, happy in her prize, which she huddled up in her gown as she ran.
And at last the little girl understood by gestures what she could not possibly get into her head by words, so she picked up the skirt of her gown in her sturdy little fists, and one, two, three clinking coins fell safely into it.
"Didn't you suppose they would be?" answered Adela, composedly.
Jasper looked up.
"Take care, Polly, you almost stepped off backward down the bank," warned Adela, pulling her back, as they got off the steamboat and stopped a bit to look around.
"Well, we must give her some, and that's a fact." The small girl kept on at a dog trot along the bank, her eyes fixed on the wonderful people who tossed out such magic wealth, and holding out her arms and singing her shrill song.
"At any rate, for now."
"Come, children,"--Grandpapa emerged from the little old house,--"we must hurry on, else we sha'n't get through this island.
they've eyes just like birds!" exclaimed Parson Henderson; "to think of finding anything in that thick grass."
Jasper followed the direction of Polly's finger.
A variegated group of natives was near by, watching her intently.
So Jasper and Polly threw the bits next time in the other direction.
"Why, that's one of the things I specially wanted to see."
"They don't know what you are saying, my boy," said old mr King, laughing heartily at the performance, "and they wouldn't mind you in the least if they did."
And they look as hard as a drum."
See them standing by that old tumble down house, Polly," he added excitedly.
fourteen
"Let them alone for that," laughed old mr King; "their wits are sharpened by practice."
"They are her daughter's wedding clothes," said mrs Fisher, "I do believe." For, the old woman was working fearfully hard to make them understand, and pointing first to the white garments and then to the young woman.
"Dear me!
I must get a good picture of those girls raking hay." Polly ran off a few steps and sat down on a log to focus.
"Now, Adela, be good and listen to reason."
"I got them," said Polly, running back in triumph to Jasper.
"She had it at the 'Model Farm,'" said Jasper, by way of comfort, for Polly's face fell.
"I suppose not," said Jasper in chagrin.
"Yes, so did I," said Polly.
"There's a little girl back there and she hasn't any," mourned Phronsie.
The Marken girls happened to look up, and immediately whirled around and presented their backs to her.
Phronsie dropped the pudgy little hand, and threw herself into old mr King's arms.
Whiz-spin-went the coins, to fall into the thick stubby grass on the bank.
Oh, here is a splendid group!
"That's capital," said Jasper, in huge satisfaction, pouring the coins into the mother's lap, where they rolled underneath the fat baby.
"Now that's too bad," mourned Polly, "for I'm afraid she'll keep away from me all the while we're on this island, and then I can't get a chance to give her my kodak at all."
"Look out, Phronsie!" exclaimed Jasper.
And he looks hungry enough."
"It made me happy in the first place because you thought of me, and then, just think, Pet, that poor sailor, how glad he will be to take it home."
"I thought you had taken your last picture, Jasper," said Polly, bursting into a laugh.
"I think there is a round board under the cap," she confided to Jasper when once out of doors; "how else could they be pulled so tight?
But some one of them always got the money.
"Oh, see, Jasper is calling us."
"It's well that we've got so many pictures, for the people at home would never believe our stories without them."
"Put her down, Phronsie; she's ever so much too heavy for you, dear." He put forth a protesting hand, but the tears ran down Phronsie's cheeks and fell on the baby's stiff white cap.
"Oh, one more!
"May I carry her?" begged Phronsie, staggering to her feet-"she's mine"--and dragging the Marken baby up with her.
"Will he, Polly?" asked Phronsie, in a rapture; "and do you think he has got any little girls?"
"Not so good as that," said Polly, sorrowfully.
But when the money was thrown, she was always a bit too late, and the other children, scrambling and scuffling, had pounced upon it, and had made off with it.
"Well, it can't be helped." So she was just going to get up from her log, when the girls, thinking from her attitude that she had given up the idea of taking a picture of them, turned back to their work.
Then they all drew up stiff as sticks, and didn't even wink.
"So she didn't do much harm, after all.
"Wedding clothes?" asked mrs Fisher, speaking very slowly.
"Hold up your apron," screamed Polly to the little girl.
"There, that's my last picture," he declared.
They smiled and nodded, showing all their teeth, and the mother took the littlest baby, for there seemed to be a very generous number of the smaller members of the family, and sat down with it in her lap on the rickety step.
He walked up to the group and held out his hand, then pointed to his kodak.
I'm going to begin to take pictures right straight off." Then she stopped and looked at Adela.
There you go," swinging her to his shoulder.
Well, now, here is another."
"Yes, yes," said Polly, "I'd rather you did first; I truly had, Adela." She ran after her, for Adela had retreated down the bank, and made as if she were going to follow the party.
Here, I'll hold you up, then you can throw it farther.
Why mr Cropper Changed His Mind
One day she resolved to go to mr Cropper himself and appeal to his sense of justice, if he had any.
She has never been able to get a scrap of proof as to who took them, or she'd make it hot for them.
"They are not behaving well in school."
"That is strange.
Complaint died away, and at the end of the term esther was re engaged.
There was nothing for her to do but resign, she thought dismally.
I should be glad to see you succeed. But I have heard many complaints regarding the order in school at present."
They know he'll back them up in secret, no matter what they do, just to prove his opinions.
I thought you would be interested in it."
"mrs Charley Cropper's husband was Isaac's brother.
"He has probably some private prejudice against him."
I just wish she could catch the Croppers once."
As for the school, we will hope that matters will improve."
Not, of course, that he had any personal objection to you, but he is set against female teachers, and when a Cropper is set there is nothing on earth can change him.
"I don't think mr Cropper would steal," protested esther.
When she got home she shut herself up in her room and cried.
"Perhaps," said esther calmly, "but there are some who do not think so.
mr Baxter nodded.
"Indeed!" mr Cropper's voice expressed bland surprise.
There will be bushels of plums on it."
I'd give considerable to see the old sinner fairly caught, but he is too deep."
But the house was locked up and evidently deserted, so she rambled past it to the back fields.
"I have the negative still, you know."
And mrs Charley knows it too, although she can't prove it-more's the pity!
It had been an especially hard day in school.
You'll have your hands full, I'm afraid.
esther found herself powerless to cope with it.
Forewarned is forearmed, you know.
But I am tired of fighting over them and I had decided before this that I'd let her have them after this.
Alfred and Bob Cropper looked her squarely in the eyes and declared their innocence in their usual gentlemanly fashion, yet esther felt sure that they were the guilty ones.
But he knows who does-and the plums go into Mehitable Cropper's preserving kettle; there's nothing surer."
"Are the boys big?" queried esther anxiously.
Reckon they weren't there today?"
The plum tree came out clearly.
mr Baxter privately had no hope that they would, but esther hoped for the best.
On the ground beneath them stood their father with a basket of fruit in his hand.
Some complaints were heard among the ratepayers and even mr Baxter looked dubious.
She knew it had taken a powerful lever to change mr Cropper's opinion, but she kept her own counsel.
When she had been absent at the noon hour all the desks in the schoolroom had been piled in a pyramid on the floor, books and slates interchanged, and various other pranks played.
mrs Charley, for instance-she would like to see this proof, I think."
"The matter of the plums isn't my business and I don't wish to be involved in your family feuds, especially as you say that you mean to allow mrs Charley to enjoy her own in future.
"I came past it today on my way 'cross lots home from the woods.
"It's a burning shame, that's what it is!
"I don't suppose poor mrs Charley will get one of them any more than she ever has," said mrs Baxter indignantly.
The children seem bright and teachable and not hard to control."
"They refuse to obey my orders," said esther faintly.
His eyes had lost their unconcerned glitter, but his voice was defiant.
From that time out the Cropper boys were models of good behaviour and the other turbulent spirits, having lost their leaders, were soon quelled.
The Croppers never openly defied her, but they did precisely as they pleased.
"You'll leave the proof with me, won't you?" said mr Cropper eagerly.
And about that little matter we were discussing the other night, Miss Maxwell.
Thirteen and fourteen and big for their age.
You need some refreshment after your long walk. mrs Cropper will bring you in something."
"But what becomes of them?" asked esther.
esther was not to be turned from her object thus, although she felt her courage ebbing away from her as it always did in the presence of the Cropper imperviousness.
She was a slight, dark girl, rather plain looking, but with a smart, energetic way.
But before long a subtle spirit of insubordination began to make itself felt in the school.
She could not believe that mr Cropper would carry his prejudices into a personal application.
He says female teachers can't keep order.
Isaac acted mean and scandalous clear through, and public opinion has been down on him ever since.
During that time the Cropper boys had come to school.
When questioned every pupil denied having done or helped to do it.
They were handsome lads, with the same smooth way that characterized their father, and seemed bright and intelligent.
"There was an excellent light for snapshots," she went on coolly.
"I have come up to see you about Alfred and Robert, mr Cropper," she said.
"Well, Miss Maxwell, how did you get along today?" asked mr Baxter affably, when the new teacher came to the table.
Instead she set her mouth firmly, helped the children restore the room to order, and after school went up to Isaac Cropper's house.
But she did not.
"There are no bad children in the school except the Cropper boys-and they can be good enough if they like.
I'll talk to Alfred and Robert and see what I can do."
"He said at the meeting today that you were the best teacher we had ever had and moved to raise your salary. I never knew Isaac Cropper to change his opinions so handsomely."
On the following Saturday esther went for an afternoon walk, carrying her kodak with her.
Cropper is sly and slippery, and it is hard to corner him."
He shook hands heartily, told her he was glad to see her, and began talking about the weather.
A man might, but they'd twist you around their fingers.
This conviction was strengthened when he overtook her walking from school the next day and drove her home.
"That plum tree of mrs Charley's is loaded with fruit again this year," remarked mr Baxter at the tea table that evening.
"Then you refuse to help me?" said esther in a trembling voice.
"I think mr Baxter is too hard on mr Cropper," said esther to herself later on.
For a few days all went well, and esther felt decidedly relieved.
There's a big plum tree growing on it close to the line fence.
Then an odd smile gleamed over her face and she lifted her kodak.
mr Cropper was opposed to our hiring you.
Not that I disapprove of you personally-far from it.
And he does hate mrs Charley.
I don't say Isaac Cropper steals those plums with his own hands.
"You seem to have won old Cropper over to your side entirely," mr Baxter told her that night.
"They disappear," said mr Baxter, with a significant nod.
"Oh, certainly," said esther, smiling.
Monday evening esther called on mr Cropper again.
"You see, Miss Maxwell, it's this way," explained mr Baxter, turning to esther.
She thought that mr Baxter had exaggerated matters a little.
She rose and placed the proof on the table before mr Cropper.
"No, thank you," said poor esther.
esther went across lots to mrs Charley Cropper's house, intending to make a call.
But you are not going yet, Miss Maxwell?
It's the finest one in Maitland.
esther Maxwell was a stranger, but she was a capable girl, and had no doubt of her own ability to get and keep the school in good working order. She smiled brightly at mr Baxter.
I have been thinking it over, and I admit I was somewhat unreasonable.
They never got on well together, and when Charley died there was a tremendous fuss about the property.
"I tell you, Miss Maxwell, the plums are mine.
"You haven't any proof that it is really them, Mary," objected her husband, "and you shouldn't make reckless accusations before folks."
esther felt relieved.
It's only a trifle, anyhow.
"The plums are mine by right," he said.
"Very well for a beginning.
"Don't show it to her," cried mr Cropper hastily.
But maybe they'll behave all right after all."
Bob and Alf Cropper were up among the boughs picking the plums.
"I had no trouble until your boys came," retorted esther, losing her temper a little, "and I believe that if you were willing to co-operate with me that I could govern them."
"Yes.
But mrs Charley never gets a plum from it."
At first esther had been inclined to like them.
The other pupils thought themselves at liberty to follow this example, and in a month's time poor esther had completely lost control of her little kingdom.
Just beyond her, with its laden boughs hanging over the line fence, was the famous plum tree. esther looked at it for a moment.
She knew that unless she could regain her authority she would be requested to hand in her resignation, but she was baffled by the elusive system of defiance which the Cropper boys had organized.
He asked interestedly about her school and her work, hoped she was getting on well, and said he had two young rascals of his own to send soon.
mr Baxter approved of her; he "liked her style," as he would have said.
That gentleman himself came in from the harvest field looking as courtly as usual, even in his rough working clothes.
I don't doubt that he is quite clear in his own mind that they are.
"Why, my dear young lady, what can I do?
The summer term had just opened in the Maitland district.
But a month later she had changed her opinion.
"Well, you see," said mr Cropper easily, "when I send my boys to school I naturally expect that the teacher will be capable of doing the work she has been hired to do."
After the preliminary remarks in which he indulged, she said, with seeming irrelevance, that Saturday had been a fine day.
Now that you're working on the Newcomb ranch you ought to be there.
Jerry's sombrero and Dick's cap waved, then, feeling assured that the girls were all right, the boys went at a gallop down the road and across the desert valley to the Newcomb ranch which nestled at the base of the Chiricahua range.
She didn't teach long though, for that very first vacation she married Jerry's cowboy father.
Dora, seeing her friend's pale face, was sorry that she had wondered aloud.
Mary lifted startled blue eyes.
Mary smiled faintly but it was evident that she was still thinking of the past, when she had been a little girl with golden curls that hung to her waist; a wonderfully pretty, wistful little girl.
"Why, of course.
Mary's nettlesome brown pony was hard to quiet until Jerry reached out a strong brown hand and patted its head.
"Good!" Dora exclaimed as she rode close to the porch.
His friendly, toothless smile was directed at the smaller girl.
"When Jerry and I were little, we were playmates.
The old man had shuffled into the dark well of his store.
Then, glancing up at the nurse who had appeared from her father's bedroom, she asked eagerly, "May I tell Dad an adventure we've had?"
The third adobe was neat and well kept.
Her husband was a doctor and they lived back in Boston before he died."
"Come on, Emanuel," Mary sang down to him.
mrs Farley, middle aged, kind faced, shook her head, smiling down at the girl.
Mary glanced affectionately at the old place with its flower edged walk, its broad porch and adobe pillars.
After that Mother and mrs Newcomb were good friends, naturally, being brides and neighbors."
Then to change the subject, she started another.
Mary smiled in appreciation of the old man's joke.
CHAPTER two THE GHOST TOWN
"Dick's working on the Newcomb ranch this summer," Mary said, as she started to ride on.
He's official fence mender just at present."
Dora nodded.
Dora defended the absent boy.
Dick is mrs Farley's son." Mary took time, in a friendly way, to satisfy the old man's curiosity.
After Mary had been taken East to school, her father had returned, and here he had spent the winters, going back to Sunnybank each summer to be with his little girl.
Mary sprang up, saying brightly, "I reckon it will have to." Then, stooping, she kissed her father as she whispered tenderly, "Rest well, darling.
"That's impossible!"
The girls could see a distant blue haze that was the smoke from the Douglas copper smelters.
"You may put up our horses and earn a dime."
Carmelita, the wife and mother, had long been cook for Mary Moore's father.
In it lived the Lopez family.
She said no more about it just then, as they had reached the old ghost town of Gleeson.
Won't tomorrow do?"
"Yes, mr Harvey.
The boys were sitting just where they had left them.
"Not tonight, please.
Goodbye, boys, we'll see you tomorrow."
A bright, black eyed Mexican boy of about ten ran out to the road as the girls approached.
"They're nice boys, aren't they?" Mary said.
Bustin' broncs?"
On their right was the corner general store and post office.
Mary, not wishing to appear foolishly timid, said, in as courageous a voice as she could muster, "Of course we're not afraid.
"Because he had to do the milking," Mary replied simply.
Hurrying up the steps, Mary skipped into a pleasant living room, where, near a wide window that was letting in a flood of light from the setting sun, sat her fine looking father, pale after his long illness, but growing stronger every day.
Then to the cowboy she said in her practical matter of fact way, "Hurry along home to your milking, Jerry, and Dick, don't you bother to come with us.
"Thanks a lot," she called brightly up to the old man who was handing the packet down over the sagging wooden rail.
Today the chairs were empty.
"I don't believe he will tell us about that.
"Then you came East to boarding school and became like a sister to me," Dora said tenderly.
"You've waited up for me, haven't you?" She dropped to her knees beside the invalid chair and pressed her flushed face to his gray, drawn cheek.
An old man, shriveled, gray bearded, unkempt, but with kind gray eyes, deep sunken under shaggy brows, stood in the open door.
Mary, not heeding the interruption, kept on.
Eight happy years they had spent together before her mother died.
When she spoke, she said, "It's only natural that Jerry should call me 'Little Sister.' Our mothers were like sisters when they were girl brides.
"Jerry didn't have time to tell us about the Evil Eye Turquoise, did he?"
That the people should be willing to receive it.
These were, one.
Let us examine at what point in the descending series representative government ceases altogether to be admissible, either through its own unfitness or the superior fitness of some other regimen.
A despotism, not even legal, but of illegal violence, would be alternately exercised by a succession of political adventurers, and the name and forms of representation would have no effect but to prevent despotism from attaining the stability and security by which alone its evils can be mitigated or its few advantages realized.
The third is when the people want either the will or the capacity to fulfill the part which belongs to them in a representative constitution.
Under his protection numerous communities were formed which knew no one above them but the king.
The contrary case is not indeed unexampled; there has sometimes been a religious repugnance to any limitation of the power of a particular line of rulers; but, in general, the doctrine of passive obedience meant only submission to the will of the powers that be, whether monarchical or popular.
At his hands, refuge and protection were sought from every part of the country against first one, then another of the immediate oppressors.
In any case in which the attempt to introduce representative government is at all likely to be made, indifference to it, and inability to understand its processes and requirements, rather than positive opposition, are the obstacles to be expected.
In this manner a central power, despotic in principle, though generally much restricted in practice, was mainly instrumental in carrying the people through a necessary stage of improvement, which representative government, if real, would most likely have prevented them from entering upon.
The most obvious of these cases is the one already considered, in which the people have still to learn the first lesson of civilization, that of obedience.
There are others in which it possibly might exist, but in which some other form of government would be preferable.
The small class who, in this state of public feeling, gain the command of the representative body, for the most part use it solely as a means of seeking their fortune.
His progress to ascendancy was slow; but it resulted from successively taking advantage of opportunities which offered themselves only to him.
The mode in which such tribes are usually brought to submit to the primary conditions of civilized society is through the necessities of warfare, and the despotic authority indispensable to military command.
When a people have no sufficient value for, and attachment to, a representative constitution, they have next to no chance of retaining it.
Obedience to a distant monarch is liberty itself compared with the dominion of the lord of the neighboring castle; and the monarch was long compelled by necessities of position to exert his authority as the ally rather than the master of the classes whom he had aided in affecting their liberation.
On the contrary, many a people has gradually emerged from this condition by the aid of a central authority, whose position has made it the rival, and has ended by making it the master, of the local despots, and which, above all, has been single.
That they should be willing and able to fulfill the duties and discharge the functions which it imposes on them.
When, however, the evil stops here, the price may be worth paying for the publicity and discussion which, though not an invariable, are a natural accompaniment of any, even nominal, representation.
Unless, therefore, the authorities whose office it is to check the executive are backed by an effective opinion and feeling in the country, the executive has always the means of setting them aside or compelling them to subservience, and is sure to be well supported in doing so.
It was, therefore, sure; and, in proportion as it was accomplished, it abated, in the oppressed portion of the community, the habit of submitting to oppression.
It would refuse its authority to all proceedings which would impose, on their savage independence, any improving restraint.
When nobody, or only some small fraction, feels the degree of interest in the general affairs of the state necessary to the formation of a public opinion, the electors will seldom make any use of the right of suffrage but to serve their private interest, or the interest of their locality, or of some one with whom they are connected as adherents or dependents.
three.
A people are no less unfitted for representative government by the contrary fault to that last specified-by extreme passiveness, and ready submission to tyranny.
A military leader is the only superior to whom they will submit, except occasionally some prophet supposed to be inspired from above, or conjurer regarded as possessing miraculous power.
These, however, are as fatal, and may be as hard to be got rid of as actual aversion; it being easier, in most cases, to change the direction of an active feeling than to create one in a state previously passive.
These are principally when the people, in order to advance in civilization, have some lesson to learn, some habit not yet acquired, to the acquisition of which representative government is likely to be an impediment.
The willingness of the people to accept representative government only becomes a practical question when an enlightened ruler, or a foreign nation or nations who have gained power over the country, are disposed to offer it the boon.
These may exercise a temporary ascendancy, but as it is merely personal, it rarely effects any change in the general habits of the people, unless the prophet, like Mohammed, is also a military chief, and goes forth the armed apostle of a new religion; or unless the military chiefs ally themselves with his influence, and turn it into a prop for their own government.
Even when the king was scarcely so powerful as many of his chief feudatories, the great advantage which he derived from being but one has been recognized by French historians.
The king's interest lay in encouraging all partial attempts on the part of the serfs to emancipate themselves from their masters, and place themselves in immediate subordination to himself.
If, instead of struggling for the favors of the chief ruler, these selfish and sordid factions struggled for the chief place itself, they would certainly, as in Spanish America, keep the country in a state of chronic revolution and civil war.
This benefit, however, is entirely dependent on the coexistence with the popular body of an hereditary king.
The work of deduction is the interpretation of these formulas, and therefore, strictly speaking, is not inferential at all.
The biggest lion in the path was the doctrine of so-called "necessary truth." This doctrine was especially obnoxious to him, as it set up a purely subjective standard of truth, and a standard-as he was easily able to show-varying according to the psychological history of the individual.
His work on political economy not only put into thorough repair the structure raised by Adam Smith, Malthus, and Ricardo, but raised it at least one story higher.
It is through this door that ontological belief was supposed to enter. "Things in themselves" were to be believed in because we could not help it.
Not one iota is added to the proof by interpolating a general proposition." We not only may, according to mr Mill, reason from some particular instances to others, but we frequently do so.
His inestimable "System of Logic" was a revolution.
A line of rail lies separated from an adjacent one, the pointsman moves a handle, and the foaming giant, that would, it may be, have sped on to his destruction and that of the passive crew who follow in his rear, is shunted to another line running in a different direction and to a more desirable goal.
As a systematic psychologist mr Mill has not done so much as either Professor Bain or mr Herbert Spencer.
The perfection of his method, its application, and the uprooting of prejudices which stood in its way,--this was the task to which mr Mill applied himself with an ability and success rarely matched and never surpassed.
It visibly takes the lead, it looks big and important, and it makes a great noise.
When mr Mill commenced his labors, the only logic recognized was the syllogistic.
He acknowledged the force of mr Mill's argument, that "The Infinite" must include "a farrago of contradictions;" but so also, he said, does the Finite.
Here was a perfect paradise of question begging.
Now undoubtedly finite things, taken distributively, have contradictory attributes, but not as a class.
He demonstrated that the general type of reasoning is neither from generals to particulars, nor from particulars to generals, but from particulars to particulars.
As, however, the instances which are sufficient to prove one fresh instance must be sufficient to prove a general proposition, it is most convenient to at once infer that general proposition, which then becomes a formula according to which (but not from which) any number of particular inferences may be made.
The real inference was accomplished when the universal proposition was arrived at.
It was this, taken with his theory of the syllogism, which worked the great change.
Still it is his work in mental science which will, in our opinion, be in future looked upon as his great contribution to the progress of thought.
Still that blustering machine, which puffs and snorts, and drags a vast multitude in its wake, is moving along a track determined by a man hidden away from the public gaze.
It was even asserted confidently, that nothing more was to be expected,--that an inductive logic was impossible.
Still less is there any one individual thing, "The Finite," in which these contradictory attributes inhere. But it was against a corresponding being, "The Infinite," that mr Mill was arguing.
After reviewing, in an opening chapter, the various views which have been held respecting the relativity of human knowledge, and stating his own doctrine, he proceeds to judge by this standard the philosophy of the absolute and Sir William Hamilton's relation to it.
Modern Noumenalists agree that we can know nothing more of "things in themselves" than their existence, but this they continue to assert with a vehemence only equalled by its want of meaning.
The ultimate major premise in every argument being assumed, it could of course be fashioned according to the particular conclusion it was called in to prove.
Those who think this a disparagement of his work must have very little conception of the mass of original thought that still remains to mr Mill's credit, the great critical power that could gather valuable truths from so many discordant sources, and the wonderful synthetic ability required to weld these and his own contributions into one organic whole.
Thus an 'artificial ignorance,' as Locke calls it, was produced, which had the effect of sanctifying prejudice by recognizing so-called necessities of thought as the only bases of reasoning.
"Yes, I am coming out, Coronel," said the voice.
"Really, I don't know.
One does not laugh at a yak, Coronel, and where one does not laugh one may come to love. . . .
Coronel had thought him-funny; but women had not much sense of humour as a rule.
"Even in the most hideous of beasts there might be a dignity." He meditated for a moment.
This he rejected at once.
"Good bye, your Royal Highness."
"Yes, that must be it." He began to feel a little brighter. "Obviously, that's it." He caressed a whisker with one of his paws. "They were afraid of me."
However, we'll soon get him all right."
"It looks-striking."
You mark my words, Coronel; she did it."
What devotion it showed if he came to her even now-in his present state of bad health! She was in trouble: enchanters, wizards, what nots.
So they held a council of war.
Coronel decided that it was an occasion for tact.
There were three courses open to him.
What are you hiding in the bushes for? Whatever's the matter, Udo?"
Poor Prince Udo!
"Tell me what I look like."
Isolated-cut off-suffering in regal silence." He waved an explanatory paw.
"This is not a time for tact," he said.
The second was that Coronel should go back that afternoon and kill the old woman.
Next morning he rode back to the wood.
He began to look so much happier that Coronel thought it was a favourable moment in which to withdraw.
Had I been a lion there would have been a certain pathetic splendour about my position.
"But you mustn't be surprised if I don't look very well.
"Ah, here you are," he said cheerfully.
"Isn't it time we were starting?"
"My poor Udo, what's happened?"
I was very polite to her.
"Coronel!" said a small voice behind him.
"Obviously."
Left to himself Udo very soon made up his mind.
"Then return to the Palace."
Coronel considered for a moment.
"I don't know, Coronel.
"Really frankly?" he asked.
"That's the cruel part about it.
He trotted off.
"I don't know.
Let us describe it calmly.
"I haven't seen it, you see."
"Coronel," said an unhappy voice at last, "I think I'm coming out."
"I couldn't have stayed with him a moment longer," he thought.
"I command you!"
"Yes, yes, you may leave me."
"Don't be a fool, Coronel," said Udo, almost crying.
"Then, frankly, your Royal Highness looks-funny."
What does my head look like?"
The Princess Hyacinth had called for him.
A tail!
That evening he reached the place where the cottage had stood, but it was gone.
"I was afraid so," he said.
Coronel didn't know whether to laugh or to cry.
Let's hold a council of war and think it over."
Roger Scurvilegs frankly breaks down over it.
I just went to sleep, and woke up feeling rather funny, and----"
Probably as a child Hyacinth had kept rabbits . . . or lambs.
Already, then, he had suffered in her service-so at least he would say, and so possibly it might be.
"It was that old woman did it.
Prince Udo put forward two suggestions.
How awkward for everybody!
He was wondering if Princess Hyacinth had an attendant of surpassing beauty, or a dragon of surpassing malevolence-if, in fact, there were any adventures in Euralia for a humble fellow like himself.
"I should have burst.
To Euralia then with all dispatch.
"What's the matter?
Coronel, what shall we do?
Udo was gone too. He returned to the Palace, and began to think it out.
Don't you remember my saying to you, 'Be polite to her, because she's probably a fairy!' You see, I saw through her disguise at once.
"And if I don't?"
"Good bye, good bye."
Coronel stopped.
I'm-I'm-Coronel, here I am," said Udo pathetically and he stepped out.
Perhaps because I'm too unimportant."
Coronel pointed out that as she had turned Prince Udo into-into a-a-("Quite so," said Udo)--it was likely that she alone could turn him back again, and that in that case he had better only threaten her.
It was not as if he had Coronel with him.
"And shall I find you here when I come back?"
"How did it happen?"
Women like to feel that there is something fierce, untamable in the man they love; well, there it was.
"I'm not very well."
"Have you ever seen a yak, Coronel?" he asked.
Well, think of that!"
Spasm after spasm shook him.
"We aren't starting," said the voice.
"Never."
As she sank she fell upon her side, and forced a very large lobster tree out of its place.
"As we drew near the Dutch shore, and the body of water over our heads did not exceed twenty fathoms, I thought I saw a human figure in a female dress then lying on the sand before me with some signs of life; when I came close I perceived her hand move: I took it into mine, and brought her on shore as a corpse.
CHAPTER fifteen
Add to this, my situation was in other respects very unpleasant; I met many large fish, who were, if I could judge by their open mouths, not only able, but really wished to devour us; now, as my Rosinante was blind, I had these hungry gentlemen's attempts to guard against, in addition to my other difficulties.
It was in the spring, when the lobsters were very young, and many of them being separated by the violence of the shock, they fell upon a crab tree which was growing below them; they have, like the farina of plants, united, and produced a fish resembling both.
The periwinkle is a kind of shrub; it grows at the foot of the oyster tree, and twines round it as the ivy does the oak.
The lobster trees appeared the richest, but the crab and oysters were the tallest.
"Would you like my hat?" cried a voice on the threshold.
That old fellow has duped you!
"You are wretches, but my life is not worth the trouble of defending it. When you think that you can make me speak, that you can make me write what I do not choose to write, that you can make me say what I do not choose to say-"
As soon as the ladder was arranged, Thenardier cried:
The ladder!
If you have me arrested, my comrade will give a turn of his thumb to the Lark, that's all."
Thenardier walked slowly towards the table, opened the drawer, and took out the knife.
"After us!" yelled the ruffians.
One of those monsters was to bear her off into the darkness?
You see that our intentions are not evil."
It was high time.
And after all that racing and fee to the coachman and all!
Marius had sufficient strength of mind to review in succession all the most heart breaking conjectures, seeking hope and finding none.
The devil!"
The prisoner made a movement in his bonds.
The tumult of his thoughts contrasted with the funereal silence of the den.
"Through the window," replied Thenardier.
"Without cutting that man's throat?" asked, the Thenardier woman.
That's the way I should have managed matters! People are perfectly right when they say that men are a deal stupider than women!
Marius cast a wild glance about him, the last mechanical resource of despair.
It was the husband and wife taking counsel together.
He would have been obliged to speak, and say where the girl is, and where he keeps his shiners!
She paused, choking, then went on:--
What!
He waited, in the hope of some incident, no matter of what nature, since he could not collect his thoughts and did not know upon what course to decide.
And what if it were she!
Thenardier rapidly unfolded the paper and held it close to the candle.
At the same moment he extended his arm, and laid the glowing chisel which he held in his left hand by its wooden handle on his bare flesh.
All at once, Thenardier addressed the prisoner:
Draw lots, do you?
He knelt down on his commode, stretched out his arm, seized the sheet of paper, softly detached a bit of plaster from the wall, wrapped the paper round it, and tossed the whole through the crevice into the middle of the den.
In the midst of this silence, the door at the bottom of the staircase was heard to open and shut again.
"See here."
Whither?
"Pardie!" ejaculated his wife, "where do you suppose it came from? Through the window, of course."
He had hardly uttered the words, when the Thenardier woman did in fact rush hastily into the room, red, panting, breathless, with flaming eyes, and cried, as she smote her huge hands on her thighs simultaneously:--
Now, it was not alone by the colonel's testament, it was by his own love, it was by the peril of the one he loved, that he felt himself restrained.
The mask with the ventriloquist's voice deposited his huge key on the floor, raised both arms in the air, and opened and clenched his fists, three times rapidly without uttering a word.
The crackling of the burning flesh became audible, and the odor peculiar to chambers of torture filled the hovel.
"THE BOBBIES ARE HERE."
"My wife will be back shortly, don't get impatient.
As he had not been able to bend down, for fear of betraying himself, he had not cut the bonds of his left leg.
For several minutes he uttered not a word, but swung his right foot, which hung down, and stared at the brazier with an air of savage revery.
The ruffians had recovered from their first surprise.
I tied that paw for him."
The prisoner uttered not a syllable.
"Wretches!" said he, "have no more fear of me than I have for you!"
Marius felt his heart stop beating.
I think that the Lark really is your daughter, and it seems to me quite natural that you should keep her.
The woman darted forward and picked up the bit of plaster.
The prisoner had not seemed to be affected by that word, "the Lark," and had replied in the most natural manner in the world: "I do not know what you mean." On the other hand, the two letters u f were explained; they meant Urbain Fabre; and Ursule was no longer named Ursule.
My wife will go and hunt her up with your letter.
Let's leave the bacon in the mousetrap and decamp!"
What a pack of boobies!
Up to that moment he had cherished a vague hope that he should find some means of reconciling these two duties, but nothing within the limits of possibility had presented itself.
You are too good, you see!
An idea, a flash, crossed Marius' mind; this was the expedient of which he was in search, the solution of that frightful problem which was torturing him, of sparing the assassin and saving the victim.
She, Ursule or the Lark, he no longer knew what to call her, was safe.
"There is only one thing left to do."
It's nothing but a big carriage gate!
Thenardier had conquered his last fears or his last scruples, and was advancing on the prisoner.
These hideous and delicate products of wonderful art are to jewellers' work what the metaphors of slang are to poetry. There are Benvenuto Cellinis in the galleys, just as there are Villons in language.
It was clear that it was she.
Thrown into a hat!--"
He stripped up his left sleeve, and added:--
"Cut his throat."
For the last hour he had had two voices in his conscience, the one enjoining him to respect his father's testament, the other crying to him to rescue the prisoner.
"We haven't the time."
"That's it."
After a pause, Thenardier continued:--
"False address!"
And he rushed headlong to the window.
"Not much, come now, you old dog, after us!"
It was Javert.
This can be screwed together and unscrewed at will; it is a box.
If it had been me, I'd have chopped the beast in four quarters to begin with!
I spoke to both the porter and the portress, a fine, stout woman, and they know nothing about him!"
Marius waited in a state of anxiety that was augmented by every trifle. The enigma was more impenetrable than ever.
In the meanwhile, the prisoner had begun to speak:--
At the same time, Marius heard below him, at the base of the partition, but so near that he could not see who was speaking, this colloquy conducted in a low tone:--
"Quick!
"Well," said the ruffians, "let's draw lots to see who shall go down first."
"Do what you please with me." He was disarmed.
"Something is falling!" cried the Thenardier woman.
The prisoner was only attached to the bed now by one leg.
The prisoner resumed:--
What did you expect to gain by that?"
This was the signal like the signal for clearing the decks for action on board ship.
"What is it?" asked her husband.
At his feet, on the table, a bright ray of light from the full moon illuminated and seemed to point out to him a sheet of paper.
While his exasperated wife vociferated, Thenardier had seated himself on the table.
Terrible images passed through Marius' mind.
This was what Marius perceived most clearly of all.
"To gain time!" cried the prisoner in a thundering voice, and at the same instant he shook off his bonds; they were cut.
There he stood, almost incapable of movement or reflection, as though annihilated by the abominable things viewed at such close quarters.
With grand and lofty natures, the revolts of the flesh and the senses when subjected to physical suffering cause the soul to spring forth, and make it appear on the brow, just as rebellions among the soldiery force the captain to show himself.
She handed it to her husband.
Discharge the pistol?
In this box he hides a watch spring, and this watch spring, properly handled, cuts good sized chains and bars of iron.
All at once a shudder ran through him.
Nearly half an hour passed in this manner.
Sazen listened patiently to his story, and, after reflecting for a while, replied, "Well, sir, it's not a difficult matter to set right: and yet it will require some little management.
The latter came punctually to his time, and, going in at once, said to the fortune teller, "Well, have you succeeded in the commission with which I entrusted you?"
One day, as they were feasting and enjoying themselves in an upper storey in Sazen's house, Chokichi came to the house and said, "I beg pardon; but does one Master Sazen live here?"
It is Chokichi who has been throwing obstacles in the way.
Then Tokiwa told Kiyomori that if he would spare her little ones she would share his couch; but that if he killed her children she would destroy herself rather than yield to his desire.
At last the night wore on; and as he was retiring along the corridor, he saw a man of about forty years of age, with long hair, coming towards him, who, when he saw Genzaburo, cried out, "Dear me! why this must be my young lord Genzaburo who has come out to enjoy himself."
Now Sazen, who as a Ronin wore a long dirk in his girdle, kept looking out for a moment when Chokichi should be off his guard, in order to kill him; but Chokichi kept his eyes open, and did not give Sazen a chance.
At first Sazen pretended to be vexed at the question, and said, "Well, sir, I've done my best; but it's not a matter which can be settled in a hurry.
When Minamoto no Yoritomo was yet a child, his father, Minamoto no Yoshitomo, fought with Taira no Kiyomori, and was killed by treachery: so his family was ruined; and Yoshitomo's concubine, whose name was Tokiwa, took her children and fled from the house, to save her own and their lives.
The following day, Chokichi's body was found by the police; and when they examined it, they found nothing upon it save a paper, which they read, and which proved to be the very letter which Sazen had sent to Kihachi, and which Chokichi had picked up.
At last they were found; but Tokiwa was so exceedingly beautiful that Kiyomori was inflamed with love for her, and desired her to become his own concubine.
I am living in a poor and humble house; but if your lordship, at your leisure, would honour me with a visit-"
I suppose she must equally be a pollution to it."
I bear you no ill will.
But Kiyomori, desiring to destroy the family of Yoshitomo root and branch, ordered his retainers to divide themselves into bands, and seek out the children.
"Indeed! what can it be?"
"The story which Chokichi came and told us, that his lordship wished to break off the connection, was all an invention.
Shall you be at home the day after to morrow?"
At last, Chokichi, after much persuasion, and greatly to his own distress, was obliged to accept the money; and when Kihachi had carried out all Sazen's instructions, he returned home, laughing in his sleeve.
"Well, sir, I have a little business to transact with you.
Don't put yourself to any trouble on my account."
At last Chokichi, as ill luck would have it, stumbled against a stone and fell; and Sazen, profiting by the chance, drew his dirk and stabbed him in the side; and as Chokichi, taken by surprise, tried to get up, he cut him severely over the head, until at last he fell dead.
One day Genzaburo, intent on ridding himself of the grief he felt at his separation from O Koyo, went to the Yoshiwara, and, going into a house of entertainment, ordered a feast to be prepared, but, in the midst of gaiety, his heart yearned all the while for his lost love, and his merriment was but mourning in disguise.
But my lord Hojo was angry at this, and, thinking to punish the peasant for his insolence, said:--
"Well, it's a lucky chance that has brought us together, and I certainly will go and see you; besides, I want you to do something for me.
They never marry out of their own fraternity, but remain apart, a despised and shunned race.
We shall meet the day after to morrow." And so the two parted, and went their several ways to rest.
"Well, sir, since I parted from you I have been earning a living as a fortune teller at Kanda, and have changed my name to Kaji Sazen.
But as it is a long time since you have met the young lady, you must have a great deal to say to one another; so I will go downstairs, and, if you want anything, pray call me." And so he went downstairs and left them.
But when I tell her what you have just said, how glad and happy she will be!
"Thank you, I have no appetite."
Now it happened that the head of the house of Hojo heard that a descendant of Yoritomo was living as a peasant in the land, so he summoned him and said:--
Be not disinclined, however, to punish any such who give rise to disputes, or who overstep the boundaries of their own classes and are disobedient to existing laws."
Chokichi consenting to this, the pair left the house together.
When O Koyo heard this, she was so happy that she thought it must all be a dream, and doubted her own senses.
But Genzaburo pressed it upon him by force, and at last he was obliged to accept the money.
At this O Koyo, who had been crouching down like a drooping flower, gave a great start, and cried out, "Is that really true?
So now, my child, you may cheer up, and go to meet your lover as soon as you please."
Pray tell me all about it as quickly as possible."
Chokichi laughed disdainfully.
"You amaze me!" replied the other.
"Good night, then.
When Chokichi heard this, he was thunderstruck, and exclaimed, "Can this really be true!
But Genzaburo, passing his hand gently over her head and back, and comforting her, said, "Come, sweetheart, there is no need to sob so.
"Well, at any rate, I have some news for you that will make you happy. A messenger has come from my lord Genzaburo, for whom your heart yearns."
Sazen was not a little taken aback at this; however, he put on an innocent face, as though he had never heard of Chokichi before, and said, "I never heard of such a thing!
Talk to me a little, and let me hear your voice."
I don't know what your lordship wishes of me; but, at any rate, I cannot receive this money.
Pray, let me tell you all about it."
And when I think that it was I who first introduced her to my lord, I am ashamed to look you in the face."
The matter was immediately reported to the governor, and, Sazen having been summoned, an investigation was held.
Begone as fast as possible."
"Yes," replied Genzaburo, "I too have suffered much;" and so they told one another their mutual griefs, and from that day forth they constantly met at Sazen's house.
Thus their race is polluted and accursed, and they are hated accordingly.
And as he pretended to leave the house, Sazen, at his wits' end, cried out, "Stop! stop!
But the princely line of Yoritomo came to an end in three generations, and the house of Hojo was all powerful in the land.
"Certainly, sir: I am Sazen, at your service.
When he heard this, Kiyomori, bewildered by the beauty of Tokiwa, spared the lives of her children, but banished them from the capital.
He has all along been wishing to meet you, and constantly urged Chokichi to bring you a message from him.
Pray, stop and listen quietly.
On the appointed day Genzaburo made his preparations, and went in disguise, without any retainers, to call upon Sazen, who met him at the porch of his house, and said, "This is a great honour!
Poor thing! have you been unhappy?" And O Koyo, with the tears starting from her eyes for joy, hid her face; and her heart was so full that she could not speak.
"This is a curious meeting: pray, what have you been about since you left my service?
NOTE
Just wait a little."
And Yoritomo became the chief of all the noble houses in Japan, and first established the government of the country.
Pray where are you from?"
But Genzaburo, when he heard that he was not to meet O Koyo, lost heart entirely, and made up his mind to go home again.
"I think," said Sazen, "that the best way would be for O Koyo to live secretly in my lord Genzaburo's house; but as it will never do for all the world to know of it, it must be managed very quietly; and further, when I get home, I must think out some plan to lull the suspicions of that fellow Chokichi, and let you know my idea by letter.
To think of such a shameless villain coming and asking to be friends with me, forsooth!
No, indeed!
This put Sazen rather in a dilemma; however, he made up his mind not to show any hesitation, and said, "What are you talking about?
"Insolent knave!
Of course I knew that the daughter of an Eta was no fitting match for a nobleman; so when Chokichi came and told me the errand upon which he had been sent, I had no alternative but to announce to my daughter that she must give up all thought of his lordship.
In the meanwhile Sazen, who did not for a moment suspect what had happened, when the day which had been fixed upon by him and Genzaburo arrived, made O Koyo put on her best clothes, smartened up his house, and got ready a feast against Genzaburo's arrival.
I really must beg your lordship to take it back again."
I will not take a fraction less than a hundred; and if I cannot get them I will report the whole matter at once."
Would you like something to eat?"
"No, indeed!
Why, I thought you must be one of us."
How happy it makes me to see you again!
And now, as it is getting late, I will take my leave for to night."
There is no O Koyo here; and I never saw such a person in my life."
However, I cannot sufficiently praise the way in which you have carried out my instructions."
Kihachi in the meanwhile rejoined Sazen in the other room, and, after telling him of the joy with which his daughter had heard the news, put before him wine and other delicacies.
"Certainly, sir, I shall make a point of being at home."
"Well, since you say that I defile your house, you had better get rid of O Koyo as well.
And so he passed in, and Sazen called to his wife to prepare wine and condiments; and they began to feast.
I want to speak to you.
Genzaburo thought this rather strange; but, looking at the man attentively, recognized him as a retainer whom he had had in his employ the year before, and said-
Genzaburo gave a great start, and, turning to Sazen, said, "Well, you certainly are a first rate hand at keeping up a hoax.
Since that time she has been fretting and pining and starving for love.
At last his lordship has secretly sent a man, called Kaji Sazen, a fortune teller, to arrange an interview between you.
I will promote you to the rank of Samurai."
Sazen, cunning and bold murderer as he was, lost his self possession when he saw what a fool he had been not to get back from Chokichi the letter which he had written, and, when he was put to a rigid examination under torture, confessed that he had hidden O Koyo at Genzaburo's instigation, and then killed Chokichi, who had found out the secret.
"Pray," replied Genzaburo, "don't make any ceremony for me.
"Oh, say not so: misfortunes are the punishment due for our misdeeds in a former state of existence.
"I am ready to talk with you; but I don't want any money.
Come! let us talk over matters a little.
And when they also died, the care of the child fell to his mother's kinsmen, and he grew up to be a peasant.
"Very well, then, the day after to morrow I will go to your house."
He turned to them a smiling face with smiling eyes.
Then there came two men well skilled in the handling of ships-Tiphys and Nauplius.
Afterward Nestor went to the war against Troy, and then he was the oldest of the heroes in the camp of Agamemnon.
From Sparta they came, and their mother was Leda, who, after the twin brothers, had another child born to her-Helen, for whose sake the sons of many of Jason's friends were to wage war against the great city of Troy.
Wonderful to the heroes Argo looked with her long oars and her high sails, with her timbers painted red and gold and blue, and with a marvelous figure carved upon her prow.
Jason welcomed him and lodged him in the king's palace, and that day the word went through the city that the building of the great ship would soon be begun.
These two brothers had on their ankles wings that gleamed with golden scales; their black hair was thick upon their shoulders, and it was always being shaken by the wind.
Afterward there came, one after the other, two who were famous for their hunting.
All in wonder the heroes gazed on the great shield, telling each other that only one man in all the world could carry it-Heracles the son of Zeus.
And those who were building the ship often felt going through it tremors as of a living creature.
The folk were watching an eagle as he came into the city, an eagle that was winging its way far, far up in the sky. Arcas drew his bow, and with one arrow he brought the eagle down.
And on other parts of the shield were shown the horses of Ares, the grim god of war.
On the night of the day he had helped to bring them down Jason had a dream.
The heroes went back to the palace of King Pelias to feast with the king's guests before they took their places on the ship, setting out on the voyage to far Colchis.
They went into the feasting hall and they saw one there who was tall as a pine tree, with unshorn tresses of hair upon his head.
And there came two brothers, twins, who were a wonder to all who beheld them.
Heracles!
There came a hero who was less youthful than Castor or Polydeuces; he was a man good in council named Nestor.
Another who came was Admetus; afterward he became a famous king.
Then all along the waterside came the noise of hammering; in the street where the metalworkers were came the noise of beating upon metals as the smiths fashioned out of bronze armor for the heroes and swords and spears.
He saw a figure standing by the mast; for a moment he looked on it, and then the figure became shadowy.
When the ship was built and made ready for the voyage a name was given to it-the Argo it was called.
All the heroes welcomed Atalanta as a comrade, and the maiden did all the things that the young men did.
Around these figures were heads of snakes, heads with black jaws and glittering eyes, twelve heads such as might affright any man.
Could it be that Heracles had come amongst them?
Great timbers were cut and brought down to Pagasae, the harbor of Iolcus.
The awful figure of the Darkness of Death was shown there, too, with mournful eyes and the dust of battles upon her shoulders.
A sacred power was in the beam, and from it the prow of the ship should be fashioned.
All was ready for the voyage, and now Jason went with his friends to view the ship before she was brought into the water.
Then mast and sails were taken down and the oars were left in the ship, and the Argo was launched into the water.
Tiphys knew all about the sun and winds and stars, and all about the signs by which a ship might be steered, and Nauplius had the love of Poseidon, the god of the sea.
Every day, under the eyes of Argus the master, the ship that had in it the beam from Zeus's grove was built higher and wider.
Both were still youthful and neither had yet achieved any notable deed.
The God Apollo once made himself a shepherd and he kept the flocks of King Admetus.
He was dressed in the skin of a bear; he had red hair and savage looking eyes, and for arms he carried a mighty bow with bronze tipped arrows.
He went to the city's gate and he met such a man.
First there came the youths Castor and Polydeuces.
The other hunter was a girl, Atalanta.
Argus the master was on the ship, seeing to it that the last things were being done before Argo was launched.
THE ASSEMBLING OF THE HEROES AND THE BUILDING OF THE SHIP
It was Chiron who had counseled Orpheus to go with Jason; Chiron the centaur had met him as he was wandering through the forests on the Mountain Pelion and had sent him down into Iolcus.
Under a great stone the king had hidden it before Theseus was born.
On the day that the messengers had set out to bring through Greece the word of Jason's going forth in quest of the Golden Fleece the woodcutters made their way up into the forests of Mount Pelion; they began to fell trees for the timbers of the ship that was to make the voyage to far Colchis.
They came riding on white horses, two noble looking brothers.
Argus was his name. He told Jason that a dream had sent him to the city of Iolcus.
Before he had grown out of his boyhood Theseus had been able to raise the stone and draw forth his father's sword.
She had dedicated herself to Artemis, the guardian of the wild things, and she had vowed that she would remain unwedded.
Very grave and wise looked Argus-Argus the builder of the ship.
No two could be more different than these two were.
He dreamt that she whom he had seen in the forest ways and afterward by the River Anaurus appeared to him.
Tall and brighthaired was Atalanta, swift and good with the bow.
The first was Arcas.
And then there came one who had both welcome and reverence from Jason; this one came without spear or bow, bearing in his hands a lyre only. He was Orpheus, and he knew all the ways of the gods and all the stories of the gods; when he sang to his lyre the trees would listen and the beasts would follow him.
But not with the timbers brought from Mount Pelion did Argus begin. Walking through the palace with Jason he noted a great beam in the roof.
And wonderful to the heroes the ship looked now that Argus, for their viewing, had set up the mast with the sails and had even put the oars in their places.
Methinks I at this moment behold him in my imagination; or rather, I behold his goodly portrait, which still hangs in the family mansion of the Stuyvesants, arrayed in all the terrors of a true Dutch general.
To this the governor rejoined that the land had previously been sold by the Indians to the Swedes, and consequently was under the petticoat government of her Swedish majesty, Christina; and woe be to any mortal that wore a breeches who should dare to meddle even with the hem of her sacred garment.
In the preceding chapter we have spoken of the founding of Fort Casimir, and of the merciless warfare waged by its commander upon cabbages, sunflowers, and pumpkins, for want of better occasion to flesh his sword. Now it came to pass that higher up the Delaware, at his stronghold of Tinnekonk, resided one Jan Printz, who styled himself Governor of New Sweden.
I forbear to dilate upon the war of words which was kept up for some time by these windy commanders; Van Poffenburgh, however, had served under William the Testy, and was a veteran in this kind of warfare.
O'er his dark brow, where late the myrtle waved, where wanton roses breathed enervate love, he rears the beaming casque and nodding plume; grasps the bright shield, and shakes the ponderous lance; or mounts with eager pride his fiery steed, and burns for deeds of glorious chivalry.
Governor Printz, finding he was not to be dislodged by these long shots, now determined upon coming to closer quarters.
There was a contest who should run up the tallest flag staff and display the broadest flag; all day long there was a furious rolling of drums and twanging of trumpets in either fortress, and, whichever had the wind in its favor, would keep up a continual firing of cannon, to taunt its antagonist with the smell of gunpowder.
Governor Printz at once took advantage of this circumstance, and compelled them to lower their flags as they passed under the guns of his battery.
To manhood roused, he spurns the amorous flute, doffs from his brawny back the robe of peace, and clothes his pampered limbs in panoply of steel.
But soft, worthy reader!
And now commenced a tremendous rivalry between these two doughty commanders, striving to outstrut and outswell each other, like a couple of belligerent turkey cocks.
The gallant warrior starts from soft repose-from golden visions and voluptuous ease; where, in the dulcet "piping time of peace," he sought sweet solace after all his toils.
On all these points of windy warfare the antagonists were well matched; but so it happened that the Swedish fortress being lower down the river, all the Dutch vessels, bound to Fort Casimir with supplies, had to pass it.
CONTAINING THE SECOND PART OF THE REIGN OF peter THE HEADSTRONG, AND HIS GALLANT ACHIEVEMENTS ON THE DELAWARE.
To heighten his vexation, Governor Printz, who, as has been shown, was a huge trencherman, took the liberty of having the first rummage of every Dutch merchant ship, and securing to himself and his guzzling garrison all the little round Dutch cheeses, all the Dutch herrings, the gingerbread, the sweetmeats, the curious stone jugs of gin, and all the other Dutch luxuries, on their way for the solace of Fort Casimir.
It is possible he may have paid to the Dutch skippers the full value of their commodities, but what consolation was this to Jacobus Van Poffenburgh and his garrison, who thus found their favorite supplies cut off, and diverted into the larders of the hostile camps?
Accordingly he descended the river in great force and fume, and erected a rival fortress just one Swedish mile below Fort Casimir, to which he gave the name of Helsenburg.
He had a garrison after his own heart at Tinnekonk, guzzling, deep drinking swashbucklers, who made the wild woods ring with their carousals.
CHAPTER one
No sooner did this robustious commander hear of the erection of Fort Casimir, than he sent a message to Van Poffenburgh, warning him off the land, as being within the bounds of his jurisdiction.
To this General Van Poffenburgh replied that the land belonged to their High Mightinesses, having been regularly purchased of the natives as discoverers from the Manhattoes, as witness the breeches of their land measurer, Ten Broeck.
For some time this war of the cupboard was carried on to the great festivity and jollification of the Swedes, while the warriors of Fort Casimir found their hearts, or rather their stomachs, daily failing them.
Uneducated as he was, he was too sensible to believe that Webster had any God given right to his manhood.
Before this watchful and resolute purpose the way opened, and he soon found it comparatively easy to find his way from Maryland to Pennsylvania, and likewise into the hands of the Vigilance Committee, to whom he made known fully the character of the place and people whence he had fled, the dangers he was exposed to from slave hunters, and the strong hope he cherished of reaching free land soon.
Luther Dorsey is about nineteen years of age, rather smart, black, well made and well calculated for a Canadian.
Left his father in chains; his mother had wisely escaped to Canada years back, when he was but a boy.
He was a member of "Albany Chapel," at Massey's Cross Roads, and a slave of dr b Crain.
In order to economize time and space, with a view to giving an account of as many of the travelers as possible, it seems expedient, where a number of arrivals come in close proximity to each other, to report them briefly, under one head.
In escaping, he was obliged to leave them both.
The order of the day was literally, as far as colored men were concerned: "No rights which white men were bound to respect."
Not relishing the idea of having to work all his life in bondage, destitute of all privileges, he resolved to seek a refuge in Canada.
SEVERAL ARRIVALS FROM DIFFERENT PLACES.
He left his mother, four sisters and two brothers.
In outward appearance Henry was uninteresting.
james is twenty four years of age, well made, quite black and pretty shrewd.
He resolved to spare no pains, to give himself no rest until they were both free.
After recruiting, and all necessary arrangements had been made for his comfort and passage to Canada, he was duly forwarded.
Margaret was about the same age as her husband, a nice looking brown skinned woman; worth five hundred dollars.
Being far in the South, and in the hands of a brutal "Captain of a small boat," chances of freedom or of moderate treatment, had rarely ever presented themselves in any aspect.
Staying to wear the yoke, he felt would rather make it worse instead of better for all concerned.
His wife was also a very "close woman." They had four children growing up to occupy their places as oppressors. Stephen was not satisfied to serve either old or young masters any longer, and made up his mind to leave the first opportunity.
His master he describes thus-
Left two sisters in bondage.
The separation was painful, as was everything belonging to the system of Slavery.
Left his mother, three sisters and five brothers in slavery.
Chaskey is about twenty four years of age, quite black, medium size, sound body and intelligent appearance, nevertheless he resembled a "farm hand" in every particular.
Luther was a member of the Methodist church at Jones Hill.
To select his own master was a privilege not allowed; privileges of all kinds were rare with him.
Charles' affection for his wife, on seeing how hard she had to labor when not well, aroused him to seek their freedom by flight.
Stephen's parents were dead; one brother was the only near relative he left in chains.
Being a young man of promise, Stephen was advised earnestly to apply his mind to seek an education, and to use every possible endeavor to raise himself in the scale of manhood, morally, religiously and intellectually; and he seemed to drink in the admonitions thus given with a relish.
William Henry was about twenty years of age, and belonged to Doctor b Grain, of Baltimore, who hired him out to a farmer.
He had a wife and one child.
They were both owned by a farmer, who went by the name of David Stewart, and resided in Maryland.
So he resolved to flee.
This Schriner was described as a "low chunky man, with grum look, big mouth, etc," and was a member of the German Reformed Church.
Their attachment to each other was evidently true.
As he asserted, and as his appearance indicated, he had experienced a large share of "rugged" usage.
The Major in disposition was very abusive and profane, though old and grey headed. His wife was pretty much the same kind of a woman as he was a man; one who delighted in making the slaves tremble at her bidding.
These were all gladly received by the Vigilance Committee, and the hand of friendship warmly extended to them; and the best of counsel and encouragement was offered; material aid, food and clothing were also furnished as they had need, and they were sent on their way rejoicing to Canada.
His master was known by the name of Major james h Gales, and he was the owner of a farm with eighteen men, women and children, slaves to toil for him.
"Don't swear, though might as well; he was so bad other ways."
She, however, was not blessed with good health, though she was not favored any more on that account.
He fled from Beaufort, North Carolina.
Partly because wheat bread has been easy to get and we have grown to like the taste, but chiefly because wheat flour gives the lightest loaf.
In England there are local regulations on the use of mashed potato in bread.
THE BAKERS' REGULATIONS.
A wheat ration which would be fair for the North might actually increase the consumption in the South.
Hotels and restaurants are required to make or serve bread containing at least as much of the wheat substitutes as Victory bread.
VICTORY BREAD
This means practically all the commercial bakers of the country, and many hotels, clubs, and institutions.
They may not serve more than two ounces of bread and other wheat products to a guest at a meal.
An extra potato or a serving of rice can be eaten instead of the usual two slices of bread and the body will be supplied with the same amount of energy.
Some people, disturbed either selfishly or patriotically by the failure of a neighbor to conserve wheat, have asked why the Food Administration trusts to voluntary methods, why it does not ration the country.
WHEN ALL EUROPE IS EATING TO KEEP ALIVE, FASTIDIOUSNESS AND FOOD "NOTIONS" MUST PLAY NO PART IN THE DIETARY.
Rationing may come yet, but any such system bristles with difficulties.
But for our ordinary loaf of bread, at least some wheat seems to be almost essential, though with skill in the making, rye can be made to serve in its place.
The result is seldom palatable.
But they must have enough wheat to make a durable loaf of bread at the bakeshops, where for generations all the baking has been done.
When the regulation went into effect in February, nineteen eighteen, twenty per cent was required and later, twenty five per cent.
But "bread" does not necessarily mean the wheat loaf.
Her bread system is voluntary like ours, but much more detailed.
In pies and cakes there must be at least one third substitute.
And you need no bread at all at some meals.
The name is really a present to the Food Administration, having been used by two large firms who gave up all rights to their trade mark.
Probably no other food industry has been more vitally affected by the war.
Bread has always been whatever cereal happened to be convenient.
The bakeries have used thirty five million barrels of flour each year, so the importance of this field for conservation is plain.
Victory bread must be saved for them.
The amounts of sugar and fat used are limited.
Even such unbreadlike food as rice is to some races what bread is to us.
FLOUR AND BREAD IN THE ALLIED COUNTRIES
This includes wheat in the form of bread, pastry, macaroni, crackers, noodles, and breakfast foods.
Rations are not a guarantee that the amount mentioned will be forthcoming; they only permit one to have it if it can be obtained.
The answers are many.
The durability is a very important consideration; crumbly corn bread cannot be distributed by bakers nor served to armies.
Bread rations are in force in both France and Italy.
Women doing their share in factories and workshops cannot get up earlier to make corn bread for breakfast.
Wheat is the only one of the cereals that has much gluten; rye has a little and the others practically none.
Victory bread is bread made in accordance with these regulations. The name "Victory" was chosen as representing the idea underlying the conservation of wheat.
WHY WE IN THE UNITED STATES DO NOT HAVE BREAD CARDS
Even the sizes of the loaves are fixed, so that the extravagance of making and handling all sorts of fancy shapes and sizes may be avoided.
The bakers have co operated loyally.
Fifty per cent of the population could not be restrained in their consumption by rationing, for they are either producers or live in intimate contact with the producer.
UNTIL THE WHEAT SUPPLY INCREASES AND THE FOOD ADMINISTRATION LESSENS RESTRICTIONS, USE NO WHEAT AT ALL IF YOU CAN POSSIBLY DO WITHOUT. Remember that you can make delicious muffins and other quick breads from the substitute flours.
Products raised with baking powder, for which our standard of lightness is different-"quick breads" like biscuits and muffins and cakes-do not require the gluten and can easily be made from substitute cereals.
All the Allied countries have been stretching their meagre wheat supply to the limit and are enforcing the most stringent regulations.
BOTH BAKERS AND PRIVATE INDIVIDUALS HAVE THEIR SHARE IN SOLVING THE PROBLEM.
About two fifths of the bread in the United States is made in bakeries and three fifths in the home.
Do not be the slave of old food habits.
Waste of any kind is very heavily punished-one woman was fined five hundred dollars for throwing away stale bread.
They must make no bread wholly of wheat flour.
WAR BREAD
Bread is the staff of life for all nations.
Gluten seems to be essential to the making of a light, yeast raised loaf.
Bread must not be sold to the retailer at unreasonable prices.
Their bread must be twelve hours old before it is sold, so that people will not be tempted to eat too much.
OUR PRESENT PROBLEM, THEREFORE, IS TO MAKE THE MOST EFFECTIVE POSSIBLE USE OF OUR WHEAT GLUTEN, TO MAKE IT GO AS FAR AS POSSIBLE IN OUR BREADS.
Both England and France have subsidized bread; the Government has set a price below cost and itself makes up the difference to the baker. England has appropriated two hundred million dollars for the purpose.
The French housewife has no facilities for bread making and the French woman does not know how and has not the time to learn.
That means, of course, that only through intelligent effort can they serve yeast bread.
Hundreds in crowded city quarters have no facilities of their own for baking.
England has compulsory rations for meat and butter or margarine and sugar, but not for bread.
CHAPTER three
The voluntary ration allows one half pound of bread a day for sedentary and unoccupied women and larger allowances up to a little over a pound for men doing heavy labor.
Even with this coarse, gray flour a large percentage of substitute must be mixed, usually twenty five per cent.
The flour is required to be of high extraction-ordinarily from eighty one per cent to ninety per cent, decidedly higher than our seventy four per cent.
Some substitute must be mixed with the wheat.
The amount of wheat flour they are now permitted to have has been reduced: at present eighty per cent of their last year's quantity, or, if they are pastry and cracker bakers, seventy per cent.
France has recently put her whole people on a rigorous ration which limits them to two thirds of the amount of bread that they have been accustomed to.
To understand why, make a dough with a little white flour and water and then gently knead it in cold water.
"She is welcome," returned the chief of the latter nation, still more emphatically.
Until such a one chose to make some movement, no deeds in arms, no natural gifts, nor any renown as an orator, would have justified the slightest interruption.
He is welcome."
"A Huron never lies!" returned Magua, coldly, leaning his head against the side of the lodge, and drawing his slight robe across his tawny breast.
The news spread from mouth to mouth, until the whole encampment became powerfully agitated.
But they love and venerate the great white chief."
Like their neighbors, they had followed Montcalm into the territories of the English crown, and were making heavy and serious inroads on the hunting grounds of the Mohawks; though they had seen fit, with the mysterious reserve so common among the natives, to withhold their assistance at the moment when it was most required.
"He is come," repeated Magua, bending his head with the dignity of an eastern prince.
The Delaware gravely bowed his acquiescence to what he knew to be false, and continued:
They consisted principally of trinkets of little value, plundered from the slaughtered females of William Henry.
In a few minutes they reappeared, escorting the individuals who had caused all these solemn preparations toward the seat of judgment.
The Delawares lost their gravity in a much more cordial expression; and the host, in particular, after contemplating his own liberal share of the spoil for some moments with peculiar gratification, repeated with strong emphasis, the words:
After a suitable and decent pause, the principal chiefs arose, and, approaching the patriarch, they placed his hands reverently on their heads, seeming to entreat a blessing.
"There have been strange moccasins about my camp.
"My brother is a wise chief.
His head, on the whole of which the hair had been permitted to grow, the pursuits of war having so long been abandoned, was encircled by a sort of plated diadem, which, in its turn, bore lesser and more glittering ornaments, that sparkled amid the glossy hues of three drooping ostrich feathers, dyed a deep black, in touching contrast to the color of his snow white locks.
This well judged and politic stroke on the part of Magua was not without instantaneous results.
Accordingly, this alarming annunciation was received, as Magua intended, with manifest disapprobation, if not with alarm.
The tribe, or rather half tribe, of Delawares, which has been so often mentioned, and whose present place of encampment was so nigh the temporary village of the Hurons, could assemble about an equal number of warriors with the latter people.
"Good!" exclaimed two or three of his auditors at the same time.
"Is the face of my great Canada father turned again toward his Huron children?" demanded the orator of the Delawares.
"The Lenape are rulers of their own hills," returned the other a little haughtily.
The politic captain of the Canadas had deemed it wiser to submit to entertain a passive friend, than by any acts of ill judged severity to convert him into an open enemy.
His reception was grave, silent, and wary.
When the excitement had a little abated, the old men disposed themselves seriously to consider that which it became the honor and safety of their tribe to perform, under circumstances of so much delicacy and embarrassment.
The warriors were lounging in groups, musing more than they conversed and when a few words were uttered, speaking like men who deeply weighed their opinions.
"He calls my people 'most beloved'."
"The Hurons love their friends the Delawares," returned Magua.
"Let the Delawares count their prisoners; they will find one whose skin is neither red nor pale."
As for the tribe itself, it had been content to announce to Montcalm, through his emissaries, with Indian brevity, that their hatchets were dull, and time was necessary to sharpen them.
It is much used also by the whites.
His nation would not go on the warpath, because they did not think it well, but their friends have remembered where they lived."
In short, the whole ceremony contained such a happy blending of the profitable with the flattering, that it was not difficult for the donor immediately to read the effect of a generosity so aptly mingled with praise, in the eyes of those he addressed.
His dark, wrinkled countenance was in singular and wild contrast with the long white locks which floated on his shoulders, in such thickness, as to announce that generations had probably passed away since they had last been shorn.
He, therefore, left the lodge and walked silently forth to the place, in front of the encampment, whither the warriors were already beginning to collect.
Has not my brother scented spies in the woods?"
Have not my brothers scented the feet of white men?"
Justice is the master of a red skin.
Its number somewhat exceeded a thousand souls.
CHAPTER twenty eight
"It is so; but they are now bright and dull; for the Yengeese are dead, and the Delawares are our neighbors."
The women suspended their labors, to catch such syllables as unguardedly fell from the lips of the consulting warriors.
When he is told a bloody Yengee smokes at your fire?
Magua waited a little, to permit his words to soften the feelings of the Delawares, before he added:
The dress of this patriarch-for such, considering his vast age, in conjunction with his affinity and influence with his people, he might very properly be termed-was rich and imposing, though strictly after the simple fashions of the tribe.
It would have been impossible for the most finished breeding to wear more of the appearance of considering the visit as a thing of course, than did his hosts, notwithstanding every individual present was perfectly aware that it must be connected with some secret object and that probably of importance to themselves.
The eyes of the old man were closed, as though the organs were wearied with having so long witnessed the selfish workings of the human passions.
He made, as he advanced, many courteous signs of greeting to the men he passed, neglecting to notice the women, however, like one who deemed their favor, in the present enterprise, of no importance.
"It would not do.
The baffled Magua continued silent several minutes, apparently indifferent, however, to the repulse he had received in this his opening effort to regain possession of Cora.
They have been tracked into my lodges."
The chief consulted apart with his companions, and messengers despatched to collect certain others of the most distinguished men of the tribe.
Then they fled to the Delawares-for, say they, the Delawares are our friends; their minds are turned from their Canada father!"
"Where is the Yengee that the Delawares fear?" returned the other; "who has slain my young men?
"She is welcome."
The red skins should be friends, and look with open eyes on the white men.
He was without arms, and his paint tended rather to soften than increase the natural sternness of his austere countenance.
"Does my prisoner give trouble to my brothers?"
Did not the Huron chief say he took women in the battle?"
The chief extended his arm and taking the other by the wrist, they once more exchanged friendly salutations.
The other acknowledged the pacific compliment by a gesture of the hand, and remained silent.
The instruments of the chase were to be seen in abundance among the lodges; but none departed.
The recent defection of the tribe had, as they well knew themselves, subjected the Delawares to much reproach among their French allies; and they were now made to feel that their future actions were to be regarded with jealousy and distrust.
When he had thus announced his liberal intention, the crafty chief arose, and gravely spread his presents before the dazzled eyes of his hosts.
Why should they brighten their tomahawks and sharpen their knives against each other? Are not the pale faces thicker than the swallows in the season of flowers?"
"Why should they not?
It might have been half an hour before each individual, including even the women and children, was in his place.
While he bestowed those of greater value on the two most distinguished warriors, one of whom was his host, he seasoned his offerings to their inferiors with such well timed and apposite compliments, as left them no ground of complaint.
"They will not find the Lenape asleep."
In the division of the baubles the cunning Huron discovered no less art than in their selection.
When in full view of the Delawares he stopped, and made a gesture of amity, by throwing his arm upward toward heaven, and then letting it fall impressively on his breast.
Here and there a warrior was examining his arms, with an attention that is rarely bestowed on the implements, when no other enemy than the beasts of the forest is expected to be encountered.
Then Magua, as if recalled to such a recollection, by the allusion to the massacre, demanded:
The delay had already continued long beyond the usual deliberative pause that always preceded a conference; but no sign of impatience or surprise escaped even the youngest boy.
They were all aged, even beyond that period to which the oldest present had reached; but one in the center, who leaned on his companions for support, had numbered an amount of years to which the human race is seldom permitted to attain.
"When was it ever otherwise?" returned Magua.
they are colored by the same sun, and their just men will hunt in the same grounds after death.
Who is the mortal enemy of my Great Father?"
Their distant villages, their hunting grounds and hundreds of their women and children, together with a material part of their physical force, were actually within the limits of the French territory.
During the short and frugal repast that followed, the conversation was extremely circumspect, and related entirely to the events of the hunt, in which Magua had so lately been engaged.
A long and musing pause succeeded.
"The Delawares of the Lakes!"
He had not long occupied the seat wisely taken a little in the shade, when another of the elder warriors, who spoke the French language, addressed him:
They will look on their children with a dark eye, and say, 'Go! a Chippewa has come hither with the name of a Huron.' Brothers, we must not forget the dead; a red skin never ceases to remember.
It is enough."
The latter approached her bedside, which was surrounded by females, in the center of whom Heyward was surprised to find his missing friend David.
Then even Duncan knew it, by its restless and sidling attitudes, which kept the upper part of its form in constant motion, while the animal itself appeared seated, to be a bear.
A single look was sufficient to apprise the pretended leech that the invalid was far beyond his powers of healing.
Openings above admitted the light by day, and at night fires and torches supplied the place of the sun
He again recounted the events of the attack on the island at Glenn's, the death of his associates and the escape of their most formidable enemies.
Near a minute these two bold and untamed spirits stood regarding one another steadily in the eye, neither quailing in the least before the fierce gaze he encountered.
The boys had resumed their sports in the clearing, and were enacting a mimic chase to the post among themselves.
This was brave, that generous.
A glimmer of light had constantly been in their front, and they now arrived at the place whence it proceeded.
How long the nerves of Heyward would have sustained him in this extraordinary situation, it might be difficult to decide, for, happily, he soon found relief.
Let this Delaware die."
Marble could not be colder, calmer, or steadier than the countenance he put upon this sudden and vindictive attack.
"His legs were good, though his arm is better for the hoe than the tomahawk," returned the other, pointing to the immovable form of Uncas.
The former was rather depressed, than remarkable for the bearing of the natives; and the latter was such as was commonly worn by the ordinary men of the nation.
Duncan, who knew that the animal was often domesticated among the Indians, followed the example of his companion, believing that some favorite of the tribe had found its way into the thicket, in search of food.
Without seeming to hesitate, he walked into the lodge, and took his seat with a gravity that accorded admirably with the deportment of his hosts. A hasty but searching glance sufficed to tell him that, though Uncas still remained where he had left him, David had not reappeared.
Profiting by so easy a method of retreat, Duncan stepped after him, and was gladly closing the slight cover to the opening, when he felt it drawn from his hand by the beast, whose shaggy form immediately darkened the passage.
Gamut, who had stood prepared to pour forth his spirit in song when the visitors entered, after delaying a moment, drew a strain from his pipe, and commenced a hymn that might have worked a miracle, had faith in its efficacy been of much avail.
In order to render their games as like the reality as possible, one of the boldest of their number had conveyed a few brands into some piles of tree tops that had hitherto escaped the burning.
CHAPTER twenty four
However much his influence among his people had been impaired by his occasional and besetting weakness, as well as by his desertion of the tribe, his courage and his fame as an orator were undeniable.
It was only as the figure of Uncas stood in the opening of the door that his firm step hesitated.
Go! take him where there is silence; let us see if a Delaware can sleep at night, and in the morning die."
A glance told him that the blow had failed, and terror changed to admiration.
The latter cast an impatient look at his neighbor, and felt his flesh creep with uncontrollable horror when he found himself in actual contact with Magua.
You know they are not.
The women and children, who lingered around the entrance, took up the words in an echo, which was succeeded by another shrill and plaintive howl.
Shall this be? Are their souls to enter the land of the just like hungry Iroquois or unmanly Delawares, or shall they meet their friends with arms in their hands and robes on their backs?
The bear growled frequently at his heels, and once or twice its enormous paws were laid on his person, as if disposed to prevent his further passage into the den.
She lay in a sort of paralysis, indifferent to the objects which crowded before her sight, and happily unconscious of suffering.
He would greatly have preferred silence and meditation to speech, when a discovery of his real condition might prove so instantly fatal.
Magua caught the expression, and raising his arm, he shook it at the captive, the light silver ornaments attached to his bracelet rattling with the trembling agitation of the limb, as, in a tone of vengeance, he exclaimed, in English:
Then, as if pitying a want of skill which had proved so fortunate to himself, he smiled, and muttered a few words of contempt in his own tongue.
One had never been known to follow the chase in vain; another had been indefatigable on the trail of their enemies.
Instead of manifesting any womanish curiosity to feast his eyes with the sight of a captive from a people he was known to have so much reason to hate, Magua continued to smoke, with the meditative air that he usually maintained, when there was no immediate call on his cunning or his eloquence.
But who has ever found a Huron asleep?"
"Did my young men take his scalp?"
Unfortunately for this prudent resolution, his entertainers appeared otherwise disposed.
Their spirits are gone toward the setting sun, and are already crossing the great waters, to the happy hunting grounds.
Slowly and reluctantly yielding to the necessity, he quitted the place, and mingled with the throng that hovered nigh.
A gesture of assent was the answer.
But they departed without food, without guns or knives, without moccasins, naked and poor as they were born.
The quick and ready motion of the chief was not entirely too late.
No other restraint was imposed on the former than the watchful looks of a young Huron, who had placed himself at hand; though an armed warrior leaned against the post that formed one side of the narrow doorway.
"My Canada father does not forget his children," said the chief; "I thank him.
Each dusky figure seemed a breathing statue, so motionless was the posture, so intense the attention of the individual.
A large black ball, which at first seemed stationary, now began to move in a manner that to the latter was inexplicable.
A thicket of brush skirted its foot, and it became necessary to proceed through a crooked and narrow path.
"Thus spoke the sage: the kings without delay Dissolve the council, and their chief obey." --Pope's Iliad
"Let 'Reed that bends' go on the hunting path; he will meet them."
Though the return of Duncan was likely to remind them of his character, and the suspicious circumstances of his visit, it produced no visible sensation.
"Spirits differ; some yield to the power of wisdom, while others are too strong."
Just then fresh fuel was added to the fire, and a powerful light penetrated even to that distant spot.
The hated and yet respected name was repeated as by one voice, carrying the sound even beyond the limits of the lodge.
"My brother is a great medicine," said the cunning savage; "he will try?"
They passed it unmolested.
"The Delawares have been like bears after the honey pots, prowling around my village.
Can the cunning stranger frighten him away?"
Magua was content with his success, or too much occupied with his secret purposes to push his inquiries any further.
We will load the back of this Mohican until he staggers under our bounty, and dispatch him after my young men.
The Huron was content with the assurance, and, resuming his pipe, he awaited the proper moment to move.
The sudden return of this artful and dreaded chief caused a delay in the departure of the Huron.
The Indian paused, as if doubtful whether to proceed, and permitted his companion to approach his side.
At a little distance from a bald rock, and directly in its front, they entered a grassy opening, which they prepared to cross.
Many of the Hurons understood the strange tongue in which the captive spoke, among which number was Magua.
The darkness of the impending cloud which precedes a burst of thunder was not blacker than the brow of Magua as he exclaimed:
Uncas stood still, looking his enemy in the eye with features that seemed superior to emotion.
When the chief, who had solicited the aid of Duncan, finished his pipe, he made a final and successful movement toward departing.
A knot of warriors soon entered the place again, and reissuing, they bore the senseless remains into the adjacent woods.
This cunning savage beheld, and instantly profited by his advantage.
Excited warriors, bedaubed with red, came thronging from all his villages.
If at any time they shewed unto the savages the excessive price which they tooke, these villaines would answere them roughly and churlishly: If thou make so great account of thy marchandise, eat it, and we will eat our fish: then fell they out a laughing, and mocked us with open throat."
And now, in ample measure, the French began to reap the harvest of their folly.
A doubt soon mingled with their joy.
Ribaut was present, conspicuous by his long beard, an astonishment to the Indians; and here, too, were officers, old friends of Laudonniere.
The Indians gradually drew off, and the forest was silent again.
His old enemy, Satouriona, keen as a hound on the scent of prey, tried, by great offers, to bribe Laudonniere to give Outina into his hands; but the French captain refused, treated his prisoner kindly, and assured him of immediate freedom on payment of the ransom.
Laudonniere was almost defenceless.
They were levelled at the foremost boats, and the word to fire was about to be given, when a voice from among the strangers called out that they were French, commanded by Jean Ribaut.
In close league with him was the mighty Oathcaqua, dwelling near Cape Canaveral, who gave his daughter, a maiden of wondrous beauty, in marriage to his great ally.
Some were for a boy, his son, and some for an ambitious kinsman.
These he had sold to the jealous Spaniards of Hispaniola, forcing them, with sword, matchlock, and culverin, to grant him free trade, and then to sign testimonials that he had borne himself as became a peaceful merchant.
They told of the King of Cabs, on whose domains they had been wrecked, a chief mighty in stature and in power. In one of his villages was a pit, six feet deep and as wide as a hogshead, filled with treasure gathered from Spanish wrecks on adjacent reefs and keys.
Here the French made their abode.
He sent to the fort mantles woven with feathers, quivers covered with choice furs, arrows tipped with gold, wedges of a green stone like beryl or emerald, and other trophies of his wanderings.
In a rude chamber of Fort Caroline the sentinel stood his guard, pike in hand, while before him crouched the captive chief, mute, impassive, and brooding on his woes.
The offer was accepted.
Meanwhile his captivity was bringing grievous affliction on his tribesmen; for, despairing of his return, they mustered for the election of a new chief.
But no persuasion could induce Outina to follow up his victory.
He shook his head, however, when he saw the vessels in which they proposed to embark, and offered them all a free passage to France in his own ships.
WAR. SUCCOR.
As they were deaf to all other terms, Laudonniere yielded, released his prisoner, and received in his place two hostages, who were fast bound in the boats.
Among the rugged heroes of the British marine, Sir john stood in the front rank, and along with Drake, his relative, is extolled as "a man borne for the honour of the English name....
It was the party whom Arlac had just repulsed, and who, leaping and showering their arrows, were rushing on again with a ferocity restrained only by their lack of courage.
Ribaut had been commissioned to sail with seven ships for Florida.
Yet no ransom was offered, since, reasoning from their own instincts, they never doubted that, after the price was paid, the captive would be put to death.
A deep dejection fell upon them,--a dejection that would have sunk to despair could their eyes have pierced the future.
As Arlac's party reached the spot, the whole pack gave tongue at once.
On the following morning, they saw seven barges rowing up the river, bristling with weapons, and crowded with men in armor.
The colonists applied to Outina, who owed them two victories.
There was no panic among the French.
The Indians, too, were hostile.
The monarch was a priest too, and a magician, with power over the elements.
A great ship was standing towards the river's mouth.
During the winter, Indians from the neighborhood of Cape Canaveral brought to the fort two Spaniards, wrecked fifteen years before on the southwestern extremity of the peninsula.
Conquest, gold, and military occupation had alone been their aims.
The commandant was forced to comply.
He had given his heavier cannon to Hawkins, and only two field pieces were left.
But, as his sway verged towards despotism, his subjects took offence, and split his head with a hatchet.
He was right.
He went home to dance round his trophies, and the French returned disgusted to Fort Caroline.
A gentleman named Grotaut took up the quest, and penetrated to the dominions of Hostaqua, who, it was pretended, could muster three or four thousand warriors, and who promised, with the aid of a hundred arquebusiers, to conquer all the kings of the adjacent mountains, and subject them and their gold mines to the rule of the French.
Then another came in sight, and another, and another. He despatched a messenger with the tidings to the fort below.
Or had some new tempest of calamity, let loose upon France, drowned the memory of their exile?
Ottigny and Arlac, with a strong detachment of arquebusiers, went to receive the promised supplies, for which, from the first, full payment in merchandise had been offered.
Sagacious, bold, and restless, he pushed his way from town to town, and pretended to have reached the mysterious mountains of Appalache.
The name of the tribe is preserved in that of the river Caboosa.
Here Ottigny halted and formed his line of march.
Had Coligny left them to perish?
If they had had any skill in hunting and fishing, the river and the woods would have supplied their needs; but in this point, as in others, they were lamentably unfit for the work they had taken in hand.
It was long in coming, and meanwhile their troubled fortunes assumed a new phase.
Put them out, and they will bring the corn faster."
But these vessels were insufficient, and they prepared to build a new one.
"But, lo, how oftentimes misfortune doth search and pursue us, even then when we thinke to be at rest!" exclaims the unhappy Laudonniere.
The result was a churlish message and a niggardly supply of corn, coupled with an invitation to aid him against an insurgent chief, one Astina, the plunder of whose villages would yield an ample supply.
One thought now engrossed the colonists, that of return to France.
Here, anchored in mid stream, they demanded a supply of corn and beans as the price of his ransom.
Thus, beset with swarming savages, the handful of Frenchmen pushed slowly onward, fighting as they went.
They moved on for a quarter of a mile through a country, as it seems, comparatively open, when again the war cry pealed in front, and three hundred savages bounded to the assault.
Again the fort was wild with excitement.
They stood firm, and sent back their shot so steadily that several of the assailants were laid dead, and the rest, two or three hundred in number, gave way as Ottigny came up with his men.
Each year he withdrew from the public gaze to hold converse in secret with supernal or infernal powers; and each year he sacrificed to his gods one of the Spaniards whom the fortune of the sea had cast upon his shores.
As they fell, the soldiers picked them up and broke them.
Both hated priests, and both hated Spaniards. Wakening from their apathetic misery, the starveling garrison hailed him as a deliverer.
The alarm spread.
Corn came in slowly, but warriors mustered fast.
May day came, the third anniversary of the day when Ribaut and his companions, full of delighted anticipation, had first explored the flowery borders of the saint John's.
Their whoops were echoed from the rear.
No longer in dread of the Spaniards, the colonists saluted the new comers with the cannon by which a moment before they had hoped to blow them out of the water.
The foremost ship was a stately one, of seven hundred tons, a great burden at that day.
Again they moved forward, and soon encountered Potanou with all his host.
Hawkins came up the river in a pinnace, and landed at Fort Caroline, accompanied, says Laudonniere, "with gentlemen honorably apparelled, yet unarmed." Between the Huguenots and the English Puritans there was a double tie of sympathy.
One of them fired at the advancing boats, and still there was no response.
He begged to know more; on which Ribaut, taking him aside, told him that the returning ships had brought home letters filled with accusations of arrogance, tyranny, cruelty, and a purpose of establishing an independent command,--accusations which he now saw to be unfounded, but which had been the occasion of his unusual and startling precaution. He gave him, too, a letter from Admiral Coligny.
The village without was full of them.
The generous slaver, whose reputed avarice nowhere appears in the transaction, desired him to set his own price; and, in place of money, took the cannon of the fort, with other articles now useless to their late owners.
The French officers grew anxious, and urged the chiefs to greater alacrity in collecting the promised ransom. The answer boded no good: "Our women are afraid when they see the matches of your guns burning.
Laudonniere hesitated, and hereupon arose a great clamor.
The Indians had killed two of the carpenters; hence long delay in the finishing of the new ship.
In brief but courteous terms, it required him to resign his command, and requested his return to France to clear his name from the imputations cast upon it.
Before them stretched a wide avenue, three or four hundred paces long, flanked by a natural growth of trees,--one of those curious monuments of native industry to which allusion has already been made.
The kindness of his captors at Fort Caroline seemed to have won his heart.
The peril was thickening hourly, and Ottigny resolved to regain the boats while there was yet time.
In a few days their preparations were made.
They were neither.
In vain the watchman on the hill surveyed the solitude of waters.
Several of the officers went to him, complaining of the slow payment of his ransom.
Worn in body and mind, mortified and wounded, he soon fell ill again.
Why, then, had they approached in the attitude of enemies?
Each shouldering a sack of corn, they marched through the rows of huts that surrounded the great lodge, and out betwixt the overlapping extremities of the palisade that encircled the town.
Their chief was Sir john Hawkins, father of the English slave trade.
Three hundred Thirnagoas and thirty Frenchmen took up their march through the pine barrens.
The Indians had left the neighborhood, but from time to time brought in meagre supplies of fish, which they sold to the famished soldiers at exorbitant prices.
The commandant accordingly resolved to buy the vessel.
Before the English top sails had sunk beneath the horizon, the colonists bestirred themselves to depart.
Party strife ran high.
Outina's conjurer was of the number, and had wellnigh ruined the enterprise.
While the mutiny was brewing, one La Roche Ferriere had been sent out as an agent or emissary among the more distant tribes.
Of the corn, two bags only had been brought off.
At no great distance from Lake George, a small affluent of the saint John's gave access by water to a point within six French leagues of Outina's principal town.
He had been to the coast of Guinea, where he bought and kidnapped a cargo of slaves.
On their arrival at the village, they filed into the great central lodge, within whose dusky precincts were gathered the magnates of the tribe. Council chamber, forum, banquet hall, and dancing hall all in one, the spacious structure could hold half the population.
The mystery was soon explained; for they expressed to the commandant their pleasure at finding that the charges made against him had proved false.
Were they the friends so long hoped for in vain? or were they Spaniards, their dreaded enemies?
On the twenty seventh of July, at nine in the morning, he set his men in order.
Outina chafed in his prison on learning these dissentions; and, eager to convince his over hasty subjects that their chief still lived, he was so profuse of promises that he was again embarked and carried up the river.
Friends or foes, French or Spaniards, succor or death,--betwixt these were their hopes and fears divided.
Stores were landed, tents were pitched, women and children were sent on shore, feathered Indians mingled in the throng, and the borders of the River of May swarmed with busy life.
Yet Hawkins secretly rejoiced when he learned their purpose to abandon Florida; for although, not to tempt his cupidity, they hid from him the secret of their Appalachian gold mine, he coveted for his royal mistress the possession of this rich domain.
Yet in these, their dark and subtle neighbors, was their only hope.
The spring wore away, and no relief appeared.
Ottigny set forth on this fool's errand with thrice the force demanded.
They were the pioneers of that detested traffic destined to inoculate with its infection nations yet unborn, the parent of discord and death, filling half a continent with the tramp of armies and the clash of fratricidal swords.
Having reached Outina's landing, they marched inland, entered his village, surrounded his mud plastered palace, seized him amid the yells and howlings of his subjects, and led him prisoner to their boats.
FAMINE.
A mob of soldiers and artisans beset his chamber, threatening loudly to desert him, and take passage with Hawkins, unless the offer were accepted.
The sentries on the bluff challenged, and received no answer.
With cries that imitated the yell of owls, the scream of cougars, and the howl of wolves, they ran up in successive bands, let fly their arrows, and instantly fell back, giving place to others.
Who were the strangers?
At length they learned that he was in one of the small huts adjacent.
Outina was nowhere to be seen.
The energy of reviving hope lent new life to their exhausted frames.
The two barges, crowded with soldiers, and bearing also the captive Outina, rowed up this little stream.
They were clothed like the Indians,--in other words, were not clothed at all,--and their uncut hair streamed loose down their backs.
Not a rod of ground had been stirred with the spade.
Famine and desperation now reigned at Fort Caroline.
They waited only for a fair wind.
Arlac, with eight matchlock men, was sent in advance, and flanking parties were thrown into the woods on either side.
Their stores were consumed, and the expected supplies had not come.
He quarrelled with you, and all the world seemed against him.
"You was all right, there, mr Finn.
Would there ever again come to him such cause for migration?
Phineas was still in London, hanging about the clubs, doing nothing, discussing mr Daubeny's wonderful treachery with such men as came up to town, and waiting for the meeting of Parliament, when he received the following letter from Lady Laura Kennedy:--
I cannot explain to you what it would be to me to be able to talk again to one who knows all the errors and all the efforts of my past life as you do. Dresden is very cold in the winter.
I cannot but think of things as they were two or three years since.
Since that I am constrained to leave his letters unanswered.
FINN,
Not but what he's disgraced himself by what he's been and done now." mr Slide in former days had been the editor of the People's Banner, and circumstances had arisen in consequence of which there had been some acquaintance between him and our hero.
And pray tell me about the affair at Tankerville.
It is my pride to think I never gave him up.
And now, my friend, could you not do for me a great kindness?
My cousin Barrington writes me word that you will certainly get the seat.
If he'd drink it, which he never does, I think I'd bear it better than give it to that nasty Union.
Papa thought all evil of him. Violet had refused him over and over again.
My father and my husband were both in the Cabinet, and you, young as you were, stood but one step below it.
A scrutiny used to be a very expensive business, but under the existing law, made as the scrutiny would be in the borough itself, it would cost but little; and that little, should he be successful, would fall on the shoulders of mr Browborough.
Now mr Low had sat for North Broughton before Phineas left London, and his wife spoke of the seat as a certainty.
Do come if you can.
All our good things went from us at a blow.
It must be remembered that at this moment mr Daubeny had not as yet electrified the minds of East Barsetshire, and that, therefore, mrs Low was not disturbed.
I do not know whether you would mind that.
Should he ultimately fail in regard to his seat he must-vanish out of the world.
But the bitter part of my cup consists in this,--that as he has won what he has deserved, so have we.
I suppose it's the same with you?" Now mr Bunce had been a very violent politician, and used to rejoice in calling himself a Democrat.
Should he knock off eight votes and lose none himself, he would be member for Tankerville.
Poor mrs Low!
You're right enough, mr Finn, you are, as far as churches go, and you was right, too, when you cut and run off the Treasury Bench.
From time to time I am implored by him to return to my duty beneath his roof.
While his young wife was living he had kept his sighs down, so that she should not hear them; but he had been forced to acknowledge that his new life had been vapid and flavourless.
LAURA KENNEDY.
He does-nothing.
"I'm afraid you don't keep much, mr Bunce."
Most sincerely yours,
He does not attempt to persuade with promises of future care.
But after all there's been betwixt you and us it wouldn't be natural to pass it by without one word; would it, mr Finn?
He is here because he cannot bear that I should live alone.
"Pretty much the same, mr Finn.
Violet does write, but tells me little or nothing of themselves. Her letters are very nice, full of anecdote, well written,--letters that are fit to be kept and printed; but they are never family letters.
mr Bunce was a privileged person, and mrs Bunce made up for his apparent rudeness by her own affectionate cordiality.
There is no one whom I can ask to tell me of him.
And then he recollected how he had left these rooms to go into others, grander and more appropriate to his life when he had filled high office under the State.
If I were a priest it would be my business to do so; but I am not a priest."
I have told Papa that I should ask you, and he would be delighted.
I cannot conceive of you as living any other life than that of the House of Commons, Downing Street, and the clubs.
Dresden, november eighteenth, ----.
It was from mrs Low, the wife of the barrister with whom he had worked when he had been a law student in London.
He had certainly sighed for the gauds which he had left.
He had opened the oyster for himself once, though it had closed again with so sharp a snap when the point of his knife had been withdrawn.
Would drawing rooms be opened to him, and sometimes opened to him and to no other?
"I see you was hammering away at the Church down at Tankerville."
And would he again be able to load the frame of the looking glass over the fire with countless cards from Countesses and Ministers' wives?
Since that he had been a married man, and those special drawing rooms and those wonderful words had in no degree actuated him in his choice of a wife.
He won his wife honestly;--did he not?
As to myself, what am I to say to you?
We certainly did not think that you would come out strong against the Church.
I and my poor father became as it were outcasts.
He declares that mr Browborough is almost disposed not to fight the battle, though a man more disposed to fight never bribed an elector.
Phineas could not keep himself from feeling that mrs Low intended to triumph over him; but, nevertheless, he accepted the invitation.
As for going back to Dublin, that was now out of the question.
"No, indeed."
Of one club he had always remained a member, and he had already been re-elected a member of the Reform.
I can't say as I ever saw very much in your religion; but what a man keeps in the way of religion for his own use is never nothing to me;--as what I keeps is nothing to him."
I complain of no injustice.
Then he thought of certain special drawing rooms in which wonderful things had been said to him.
"mr Slide is pretty wide awake whatever side he's on.
They were very glad to see him, explaining that, as nobody was supposed to be in town, nobody had been asked to meet him.
He says no word of happiness.
"And so," said mrs Low, "you've begun to attack the Church?"
We can foresee that there is much grief in store for her, and some rocks ahead, too, in the political career of her husband.
And young Jack writes as well as his father, pretty nigh, mr Finn, which is a comfort,"--mr
He offers no comfort.
"Yes; at the old game.
I never expected this.
"You don't mean that I am guilty of throwing the first stone?" said Phineas.
He was very poor.
For a while, till the inquiry be made at Tankerville, your time must be vacant.
He had left all those things of his own free will, as though telling himself that there was a better life than they offered to him.
That he did not attend during the last Session I do know, and we presume that he has now abandoned his seat.
He has never even told me that he loves me; but he is persistent in declaring that those whom God has joined together nothing human should separate.
Would he be able to insert the point again between those two difficult shells?
Now Lord Chiltern was again his very intimate friend.
You will have seen it all, and have enough of the feminine side of a man's character to be able to tell me how they are living. I am sure they are happy together, because Violet has more common sense than any woman I ever knew.
Would the Countesses once more be kind to him?
He dreads that he may be called upon to do anything.
He grounds his demand on no affection of his own, on no presumption that any affection can remain with me.
But the ground for that was gone, and mrs Low was no longer painfully severe.
What's an Ecclesiastical Commission?
Alas! alas! how soon might he now require that money lender's services!
But neither did he nor did his wife for a moment abstain from attacking their guest in respect to his speeches at Tankerville.
And now he did think it probable that he should get the seat on a petition.
An ineffable misery fell upon me and upon my wretched husband.
MY DEAR mr
"But when we read of Churches as is called State Churches,--Churches as have bishops you and I have to pay for, as never goes into them-"
At home, as you know, not only did he take an active part in politics, but he was active also in the management of his own property. Now it seems to him to be almost too great a trouble to write a letter to his steward; and all this has come upon him because of me.
He knew that many votes had been given for Browborough which, if the truth were known of them, would be knocked off; and he did not know that the same could be said of any one of those by which he had been supported.
But Barrington seems to think that you managed as well as you did by getting outside the traces, as he calls it.
They tell me at the People's Banner office that the lords have had as much to do with this election as with any that ever went before it."
For myself I hate to think of the coming severance; but if it must come, why not by your hands as well as by any other?
And he has ever been honest.
What I hope is that my friends will not suppose that I attack the Protestant Church because I am a Roman Catholic.
"But we don't pay the bishops, mr Bunce."
She had asked him to come and dine with them after the old fashion in Baker Street, naming a day as to which she presumed that he would by that time have finished his affairs at Tankerville, intimating also that mr Low would then have finished his at North Broughton.
One card, or rather note, had reached him while he was yet at Tankerville, reminding him of old days.
In truth the burden of idleness has now fallen upon him so heavily that he cannot shake it off.
It seemed, indeed, to Phineas that as mrs Low was buckled up in such triple armour that she feared nothing, she might have been less loud in expressing her abhorrence of the enemies of the Church.
I don't see that things are much better than they used to be.
Our castle was built upon the sand.
We proved all that when we pared them down a bit.
He had entered upon a feverish state of existence in which it was impossible that he should live in Ireland.
But, at that moment, nothing had as yet been heard in Baker Street of mr Daubeny's proposition to the electors of East Barsetshire!
Lord Chiltern for a few months had lived with him; and then there had arisen a quarrel, which he had for a time thought would dissolve his old life into ruin.
"So you're at the old game, mr Finn?" said his landlord.
A few words were said as to his great loss.
"Deary me, and isn't it a thing for sore eyes to have you back again!
So he took up his residence once more at the house of a certain mr and mrs Bunce, in Great Marlborough Street, with whom he had lodged when he first became a member of Parliament.
And when I hear of you at Harrington Hall I know that you are on your way to the other things.
But, unfortunately, the judge by whom all this would be decided might not reach Tankerville in his travels till after Christmas, perhaps not till after Easter; and in the meantime, what should he do with himself?
We have a large furnished house outside the town, with a pleasant view and a pretty garden.
"No stones can be dangerous," said mrs Low.
"The idea of a State Church," said Phineas, "is opposed to my theory of political progress.
Now he had been tempted back again to the old haunts. Would the Countesses' cards be showered upon him again?
"Perhaps they don't know much about it at the People's Banner office. I thought mr Slide and the People's Banner had gone over to the other side, Bunce?"
If she feared nothing, why should she scream so loudly?
Between the two he was a good deal crushed and confounded, and mrs Low was very triumphant when she allowed him to escape from her hands at ten o'clock.
In former days he had been very intimate in that house, having received from both of them much kindness, mingled, perhaps, with some touch of severity on the part of the lady.
"Oh yes, we do; because, if they wasn't paid, the money would come to us to do as we pleased with it.
mrs Low once raised her eyebrows in pretended surprise when Phineas explained that he had thrown up his place, and then they settled down on the question of the day.
"You haven't thrown the first stone," said mr Low; "but you have taken up the throwing at the first moment in which stones may be dangerous."
Phineas Finn returned from Tankerville to London in much better spirits than those which had accompanied him on his journey thither. He was not elected; but then, before the election, he had come to believe that it was quite out of the question that he should be elected.
But, as Barrington says, a horse won't get oats unless he works steady between the traces.
He makes his claim simply on Holy Writ, and on the feeling of duty which thence ought to weigh upon me.
We are very particular about the rooms, but my father bears the temperature wonderfully well, though he complains.
That he didn't.
His flight, which was remarkable, inasmuch as he had covered three hundred eighty miles within twenty four hours, including two unavoidable descents, struck the Teuton imagination.
It stimulated financial support, and the second airship was taken in hand.
Another craft was built, larger than its predecessors, and equipped with two motors developing one hundred seventy horse power.
Unshaken by this adverse criticism, Germany rests assured that by means of its Zeppelins it will achieve that universal supremacy which it is convinced is its Destiny.
This blind child like faith has been responsible for the establishment and development of the Zeppelin factories.
With this capital a third ship was taken in hand, and in nineteen o five it was launched.
Certainly it has placed many notable flights to its credit.
At Friedrichshafen the facilities are adequate to produce two of these vessels per month, while another factory of a similar capacity has been established at Berlin. Unfortunately such big craft demand large docks to accommodate them, and in turn a large structure of this character constitutes an easy mark for hostile attack, as the raiding airmen of the Allies have proved very convincingly.
The Parseval is pronounced by experts to be the finest expression of aeronautical engineering so far as Teuton effort is concerned.
On june twentieth nineteen o eight, at eight twenty six a m the craft ascended and remained aloft for twelve hours, during which time it made an encouraging circular tour.
Consequently the Grand Idea must be supported with unbounded enthusiasm.
Despite catastrophe the inventor wrestled gamely with his project.
One of the motors went wrong, and the longitudinal stability was found to be indifferent.
The trials with this vessel commenced on november thirtieth nineteen o five, but ill luck had not been eluded.
A sudden squall struck the unwieldy monster.
It remained aloft for thirty eight hours, during which time it covered six hundred ninety miles, and, although it came to grief upon alighting, by colliding with a tree, the final incident passed unnoticed.
The lessons taught by one disaster were taken to heart, and arrangements to prevent the recurrence thereof incorporated in the succeeding craft. Unfortunately, however, as soon as one defect was remedied another asserted itself.
Although the Zeppelin was accepted as a perfect machine it has never been possible to disperse the atmosphere of disaster with which it has been enveloped from the first.
Victory appeared within measurable distance: the arduous toil of many patient years was about to be rewarded.
It was a catastrophe that would have completely vanquished many an inventor, but the Count was saved the gall of defeat.
Many vivid prophecies of the forthcoming flights by Zeppelin have been uttered, and it is quite probable that more than one will be fulfilled, but success will be attributable rather to accident than design.
A further crash and blasting of cherished hopes appeared imminent, but at this moment another Royal personage came to the inventor's aid.
The seeds so carefully planted by the "Most High of Prussia" now bore fruit. The German nation sympathised with the indomitable inventor, appreciated his genius, and promptly poured forth a stream of subscriptions to enable him to build another vessel.
The trials were fairly satisfactory, but inconclusive.
He could forge ahead untrammelled by anxiety and worry.
The Count was hailed by his august master as "The greatest German of the twentieth century," and in this appreciation the populace wholeheartedly concurred.
Accidents were of almost daily occurrence.
Here was a means of obtaining the mastery of the air: a formidable engine of invasion and aerial attack had been perfected.
It was this persistent revelation of the unexpected which caused another period of indifference towards his invention. Probably nothing more would have been heard of the Zeppelin after this last accident had it not been for the intervention of the Prussian Government at the direct instigation of the Kaiser, who had now taken Count Zeppelin under his wing.
Another Zeppelin was built and it created a world's record.
The crucial test was essayed on august fifth nineteen o eight.
Germany was in advance of the world.
The result was that the whole of the money collected by his hard work was expended before the ship could take to the air.
But as it approached the ground, Nature, as if infuriated at the conquest, rose up in rebellion.
All the imperfections incidental to the previous craft had been eliminated, while the ship followed improved lines in its mechanical and structural details.
A strong wind caught her during the night and she was speedily reduced to indistinguishable scrap.
But the Zeppelin must not be under rated.
The vessel was brought down, and was to be anchored, but the Fates ruled otherwise.
But misfortune still pursued him.
A strong wind caught the ungainly airship, she dipped her nose into the water, and as the motor was set going she was driven deeper into the lake, the vessel only being saved by hurried deflation.
He was striving for the Fatherland, and his unselfish patriotism appealed to one and all.
The intimation that other Powers had approached the Count for the acquisition of his idea became known far and wide, together with the circumstance that he had unequivocally refused all offers.
Although the Zeppelin is the main stake of the German people in matters pertaining to aerial conquest, other types of airships have not been ignored, as related in another chapter.
They have been fostered upon a smaller but equally effective scale.
It is quite true that each astounding achievement has been attended by an equally stupendous accident, but that is accepted as a mere incidental detail by the faithful Teutonic nation.
The King of Wurtemberg took a personal interest in his subject's uphill struggle, and the Wurtemberg Government granted him the proceeds of a lottery.
The airship was within sight of home when it had to descend owing to the development of another motor fault.
The airship was four hundred fourteen feet in length by thirty eight feet in diameter, was equipped with seventeen gas balloons having an aggregate capacity of three hundred sixty seven thousand cubic feet of hydrogen, was equipped with two eighty five horse power motors driving four propellers, and displaced nine tons.
Then a slight mishap demanded attention, but was speedily repaired, and was ignored officially as being too trivial to influence the main issue.
So soon as one trouble was overcome another made itself manifest.
He could show you a newspaper of almost every month-nay, almost every week, since newspapers were first published in America.
The war ended.
Not at all.
I finally compromised the matter by agreeing to divide my time between the Union Club, the Brevoort House, and Ned Buntline's quarters.
Having determined to visit New York, I acted upon General Sheridan's suggestion and wrote to General Stager, from whom in a few days I received my railroad passes.
I'll be there, sure."
This was "a bad break," but I did not learn of my mistake until next day, when at the Union Club House several gentlemen, among them Lawrence Jerome, inquired "where in the world I had been," and why I had not put in an appearance at Bennett's dinner.
They were all very anxious to have us remain several days, but as I had some business to attend to in New York, I was obliged to return that day.
He was delighted to see me, and insisted on my becoming his guest.
Together we attended the ball, and during the evening I was well entertained.
I thanked him for the generous offer, which I had to decline owing to a lack of confidence in myself; or as some people might express it, I didn't have the requisite cheek to undertake a thing of that sort.
I received numerous dinner invitations, as well as invitations to visit different places of amusement and interest; but as they came in so thick and fast, I soon became badly demoralized and confused.
Obtaining thirty days' leave of absence from the department, I struck out for the East.
Acting upon the suggestion of mr Bennett, I had dressed myself in my buckskin suit, and I naturally attracted considerable attention; especially when I took part in the dancing and exhibited some of my backwoods steps, which, although not as graceful as some, were a great deal more emphatic.
He said that General Sheridan and himself had had some conversation about the matter, and if I wanted a commission, one could easily be procured for me.
Just as I was about to leave Chicago I met Professor Henry a Ward, of Rochester, for whom during the previous year or two I had collected a large number of specimens of wild animals.
I never felt more relieved in my life than when I got out of the view of that immense crowd.
This he willingly did, and then informed me that my services would soon be required at Fort McPherson, as there was to be an expedition sent out from that point.
And besides this, the hundreds of questions which I was called upon to answer further embarrassed and perplexed me.
I thanked General Ord for his kindness, and said that although an officer's commission in the regular army was a tempting prize, yet I preferred to remain in the position I was then holding.
I apologized as well as I could, by saying that I had been out on a scout and had got lost, and had forgotten all about the dinner; and expressed my regret for the disappointment I had created by my forgetfulness.
I had been in New York about twenty days when General Sheridan arrived in the city.
james Gordon Bennett had prepared a dinner for me, at which quite a large number of his friends were to be present, but owing to my confusion, arising from the many other invitations I had received, I forgot all about it, and dined elsewhere.
According to the route laid out for me by General Stager, I was to stop at Niagara Falls, Buffalo and Rochester on my way to New York, and he provided me with all the necessary railroad passes.
I was curious to see how I would look when represented by some one else, and of course I was present on the opening night, a private box having been reserved for me.
He would listen to no excuses, and on introducing me to Messrs.
August Belmont, the banker, being near said:
Sheridan, who said that his brother, the General, had not yet returned, but had sent word that I was to be his and the Colonel's guest, at their house, while I remained in Chicago.
"Never mind, gentlemen, I'll give Cody a dinner at my house."
He told me that my Aunt Eliza, his first wife, was dead, and that he had married a second time; Lizzie Guss, my cousin, I thought was the most beautiful girl I had ever seen.
The audience, upon learning that the real "Buffalo Bill" was present, gave several cheers between the acts, and I was called on to come out on the stage and make a speech.
I looked up, then down, then on each side, and everywhere I saw a sea of human faces, and thousands of eyes all staring at me.
The play of "Buffalo Bill" had a very successful run of six or eight weeks, and was afterwards produced in all the principal cities of the country, everywhere being received with genuine enthusiasm.
I had an elegant dinner at the club rooms, with the gentlemen who had been out on the September hunt, and other members of the club.
But when I undertook to do artistic dancing, I found I was decidedly out of place in that crowd, and I accordingly withdrew from the floor.
My utterances were inaudible even to the leader of the orchestra, mr Dean, who was sitting only a few feet in front of me. Bowing to the audience, I beat a hasty retreat into one of the canons of the stage.
I confess that I felt very much embarrassed-never more so in my life-and I knew not what to say.
mr Bennett, who was among the guests, having forgiven my carelessness, invited me to accompany him to the Liederkranz masked ball, which was to take place in a few evenings, and would be a grand spectacle.
That evening mr Freleigh offered to give me five hundred dollars a week to play the part of "Buffalo Bill" myself.
General Ord, commanding the Department of the Platte at the time, and who had been out on the Alexis hunt, had some business to attend to at Fort McPherson, and I accepted his invitation to ride over to the post with him in an ambulance.
Inviting us into the parlor, my uncle brought in the members of his family, among them an elderly lady, who was my grandmother, as he informed me.
I met him soon after he got into town.
He was on his way to Rochester, and kindly volunteered to act as my guide until we reached that point.
The next few days I spent in viewing the sights of New York, everything being new and startling, convincing me that as yet I had seen but a small portion of the world.
I occasionally passed an evening at Niblo's Garden, viewing the many beauties of "The Black Crook," which was then having its long run, under the management of Jarrett and Palmer, whose acquaintance I had made, and who extended to me the freedom of the theater.
On arriving in Chicago, in February, eighteen seventy two, I was met at the depot by Colonel m v
Overton and Blair, proprietors of the Brevoort, they also gave me a pressing invitation to make my home at their house.
Assuring them, however, that I would visit them again soon, I bade them adieu, and with Buntline took the train for New York.
This was my first trip to the East, and I had not yet become accustomed to being stared at.
mr Freleigh, the manager, insisted that I should comply with the request, and that I should be introduced to mr Studley.
The drama was called "Buffalo Bill, the King of Border Men." While I was in New York it was produced at the Bowery Theater; j b
On the way thither he asked me how I would like to have an officer's commission in the regular army.
They said that Bennett had taken great pains to give me a splendid reception, that the party had waited till nine o'clock for me, and that my non arrival caused considerable disappointment.
I finally consented, and the next moment I found myself standing behind the footlights and in front of an audience for the first time in my life.
Hecksher, who had been appointed as "a committee of one" to escort me to the Union Club, where james Gordon Bennett, Leonard w Jerome and others were to give me an informal reception, and where I was to make my headquarters during my visit in the great metropolis.
The dancers kept on their masks until midnight, and the merry and motley throng presented a brilliant scene, moving gracefully beneath the bright gas light to the inspiriting music.
CHAPTER twenty six.
The drama was played smoothly, and created a great deal of enthusiasm.
I also accompanied General Sheridan-who meantime had returned to the city-to a ball at Riverside-an aristocratic suburb.
I made a note of the date, and at the appointed time I was promptly at mr Belmont's mansion, where I spent a very enjoyable evening.
I was introduced to quite a number of the best people of the city, and was invited to several "swell" dinners.
"Thank you, sir," said I; "I see you are determined that I shall not run short of rations while I am in the city.
I found I had accepted invitations to dine at half a dozen or more houses on the same day and at the same hour.
Both mr Jerome and mr Hecksher told me that I must not disappoint mr Belmont, for his dinners were splendid affairs.
The monk glanced round the room as though to assure himself that he was really alone with the dying man; then he advanced with a slow and solemn step towards the bed.
"It is not I who desire it; it is the Lord," replied Savonarola coldly.
There, where he was appointed by his superiors to give lessons in philosophy, the young novice had from the first to battle against the defects of a voice that was both harsh and weak, a defective pronunciation, and above all, the depression of his physical powers, exhausted as they were by too severe abstinence.
The result of this was that, so long as Lorenzo lived in riches, happiness, and magnificence, Savonarola had never been willing, whatever entreaties were made, to sanction by his presence a power which he considered illegitimate.
They obeyed at once, and scarcely had they left by one door than the curtain of the other was raised, and the monk, pale, immovable, solemn, appeared on the threshold.
"Impossible, impossible!" murmured Lorenzo.
To him religion and liberty appeared as two virgins equally sacred; so that, in his view, Lorenzo in subjugating the one was as culpable as Pope Innocent the eighth in dishonouring the other.
He did not work, like the German monk, by reasoning, but by enthusiasm.
When he perceived him, Lorenzo dei Medici, reading in his marble brow the inflexibility of a statue, fell back on his bed, breathing a sigh so profound that one might have supposed it was his last.
"My father, shall I have time?" asked the dying man.
"God will give it to you," replied the monk.
Lorenzo sat up on his bed, shaken by a convulsive movement, and questioned with his eyes the eyes of the Dominican, as though he would find out if he had deceived himself and not heard aright.
"God will forgive your vanities, your adulterous pleasures, your obscene festivals; so much for your sins.
"My father," replied Lorenzo eagerly, "I feel this faith in the very depths of my heart."
"Everything," said Savonarola, "but on three conditions."
Yet, although hitherto he had bowed his head before the authority of the Church, he had already raised it against the temporal power.
The monk, without replying a single word, made a step to withdraw.
Savonarola from that time condemned himself to the most absolute seclusion, and disappeared in the depths of his convent, as if the slab of his tomb had already fallen over him.
On the eighth of April, fourteen ninety two, in a bedroom of the Carneggi Palace, about three miles from Florence, were three men grouped about a bed whereon a fourth lay dying.
"The second," said Savonarola, "is that you give back the property of others which you have unjustly confiscated and kept."
"Have pity on Florence," said the monk.
The austere preacher set forth at once, bareheaded and barefoot, hoping to save not only the soul of the dying man but also the liberty of the republic.
Lorenzo shut his eyes, as though to reflect more at his ease; then, after a moment's silence, he replied:
The man on the bed was Lorenzo the Magnificent, who at the beginning of the year had been attacked by a severe and deep seated fever, to which was added the gout, a hereditary ailment in his family.
For more information, or to volunteer, please visit librivox dot org.
Indeed, Savonarola was one of those men of stone, coming, like the statue of the Commandante, to knock at the door of a Don Giovanni, and in the midst of feast and orgy to announce that it is even now the moment to begin to think of Heaven.
All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
It was not, however, without an inward fear, against which the praises of his friends availed nothing, that the pleasure seeker and usurper awaited that severe and gloomy preacher by whose words all Florence was stirred, and on whose pardon henceforth depended all his hope for another world.
With him logic always gave way before inspiration: he was not a theologian, but a prophet.
"The first," said Savonarola, "is that you feel a complete faith in the power and the mercy of God."
"Your sins and also your crimes, God will forgive them all," replied Savonarola.
never!" exclaimed Lorenzo, falling back on his bed and shaking his head,--"never!"
Lorenzo, as we have said, was awaiting the arrival of Savonarola with an impatience mixed with uneasiness; so that, when he heard the sound of his steps, his pale face took a yet more deathlike tinge, while at the same time he raised himself on his elbow and ordered his three friends to go away.
But Lorenzo on his deathbed sent for him, and that was another matter.
"But, my father," cried Lorenzo, "Florence is free, Florence is happy."
Lorenzo watched his approach with terror; then, when he was close beside him, he cried:
There, kneeling on the flags, praying unceasingly before a wooden crucifix, fevered by vigils and penances, he soon passed out of contemplation into ecstasy, and began to feel in himself that inward prophetic impulse which summoned him to preach the reformation of the Church.
Then at last, when he had finished, Lorenzo asked in a doubtful tone:
"Never!
"Yes, my father, I will do it."
Savonarola repeated the same words.
"O my father, I have been a very great sinner!"
"My father, my father," said the dying man, "do not leave me thus: have pity on me!"
"The third," resumed Savonarola, "is that you restore to the republic her ancient independence and her former liberty."
Nevertheless, the reformation of Savonarola, more reverential than Luther's, which followed about five and twenty years later, respected the thing while attacking the man, and had as its aim the altering of teaching that was human, not faith that was of God.
"What are they?" asked the dying man.
I am grateful that he is in such good hands, and whenever I again visit Memphis I shall surely go and see Brigham if he is still alive.
When the exercises-which were of a very tame character, being more for style than speed-were over, and just as the crowd were about to return to the city, a purse of two hundred fifty dollars was made up, to be given to the horse that could first reach Wyandotte, four miles distant.
The hunt took place about twenty miles east of Sheridan, and as it had been pretty well advertised and noised abroad, a large crowd witnessed the interesting and exciting scene.
"That's nothing at all," said I; "I have done it many a time, and old Brigham knows as well as I what I am doing, and sometimes a great deal better."
I was very reluctant to part with him, but I consoled myself with the thought that he would not be likely to receive harder usage in other hands than he had in mine.
I had several good offers to sell him; but at the suggestion of some gentlemen in Sheridan, all of whom were anxious to obtain possession of the horse, I put him up at a raffle, in order to give them all an equal chance of becoming the owner of the famous steed.
mr Wilcox bought the horse at Wyandotte, from the gentleman who had won him at the raffle, and he intends to keep him as long as he lives.
As scouts and guides were in great demand, I concluded once more to take up my old avocation of scouting and guiding for the army.
Comstock was mounted on one of his favorite horses, while I rode old Brigham.
Old Brigham was won by a gentleman-mr
After the result of the first run had been duly announced, our saint Louis excursion friends-who had approached to the place where we had stopped-set out a lot of champagne, which they had brought with them, and which proved a good drink on a Kansas prairie, and a buffalo hunter was a good man to get away with it.
Shortly after the adventures mentioned in the preceding chapter, I had my celebrated buffalo hunt with Billy Comstock, a noted scout, guide and interpreter, who was then chief of scouts at Fort Wallace, Kansas. Comstock had the reputation, for a long time, of being a most successful buffalo hunter, and the officers in particular, who had seen him kill buffaloes, were very desirous of backing him in a match against me.
The arrangement was carried out, and Brigham was entered as one of the contestants for the purse.
It was only a small drove, and we at once prepared to give the animals a lively reception.
We were fortunate in the first run in getting good ground.
The buffaloes were quite plenty, and it was agreed that we should go into the same herd at the same time and "make a run," as we called it, each one killing as many as possible.
Brigham, of course, had already acquired a wide reputation, and his name and exploits had often appeared in the newspapers, and when it was learned that this "critter" was none other than the identical buffalo hunting Brigham, nearly the whole crowd admitted that they had heard of him before, and had they known him in the first place they certainly would have ruled him out.
A grand tournament came off four miles from Wyandotte, and Brigham took part in it.
This I did at once, and after providing them with a comfortable little home, I returned and reported for duty at Fort Larned.
Comstock and I dashed into a herd, followed by the referees.
Comstock began shooting at the rear of the herd, which he was chasing, and they kept straight on.
They killed, scalped and robbed Comstock; but Grover, although severely wounded, made his escape, owing to the fleetness of the excellent horse which he was riding.
The next day I rode out with mr Wilcox and took a look at the gallant old horse.
It was accordingly arranged that I should shoot him a buffalo killing match, and the preliminaries were easily and satisfactorily agreed upon.
Ike Bonham,--who took him to Wyandotte, Kansas, where he soon added new laurels to his already brilliant record.
This had raised the excitement to fever heat among the excursionists, and I remember one fair lady who endeavored to prevail upon me not to attempt it.
The buffaloes separated; Comstock took the left bunch and I the right.
Everybody laughed at mr Bonham when it became known that he was to ride that poky looking plug against the five thoroughbreds which were to take part in the race.
As I was so far ahead of my competitor in the number killed, I thought I could afford to give an extra exhibition of my skill. I had told the ladies that I would, on the next run, ride my horse without saddle or bridle.
Striking out for a distance of three miles, we came up close to another herd.
An excursion party, mostly from saint Louis, consisting of about a hundred gentlemen and ladies, came out on a special train to view the sport, and among the number was my wife, with little baby Arta, who had come to remain with me for a while.
At last the time came to begin the match.
I had "nursed" my buffaloes, as a billiard player does the balls when he makes a big run.
The wager was five hundred dollars a side, and the man who should kill the greater number of buffaloes from on horseback was to be declared the winner.
On the fourth mile his rider let him out, and arrived at the hotel-the home station-in Wyandotte a long way ahead of his fastest competitor.
I finally lost track of Brigham, and for several years I did not know what had become of him.
A referee was to follow each of us on horseback when we entered the herd, and count the buffaloes killed by each man.
For the first half mile several of the horses led Brigham, but on the second mile he began passing them one after the other, and on the third mile he was in advance of them all, and was showing them all the road at a lively rate.
So, leaving my saddle and bridle with the wagons, we rode to the windward of the buffaloes, as usual, and when within a few hundred yards of them we dashed into the herd.
CHAMPION BUFFALO KILLER.
He succeeded, however, in killing twenty three, but they were scattered over a distance of three miles, while mine lay close together.
Having no suitable place in which to leave my old and faithful buffalo hunter Brigham, and not wishing to kill him by scouting, I determined to dispose of him.
We were to hunt one day of eight hours, beginning at eight o'clock in the morning, and closing at four o'clock in the afternoon.
At this time there was a general Indian war raging all along the western borders.
But to return to the thread of my narrative, from which I have wandered. Having received the appointment of guide and scout, and having been ordered to report at Fort Larned, then commanded by Captain Dangerfield Parker, I saw it was necessary to take my family-who had remained with me at Sheridan, after the buffalo hunting match-to Leavenworth, and there leave them.
After surrounding the two men they suddenly attacked them.
It seemed as if he almost remembered me, and I put my arms around his neck, as though he had been a long lost child.
He was comfortably cared for in mr Wilcox's stable, and looked the same clever pony that he always was.
This sad event occurred august twenty seventh eighteen sixty eight.]
General Sheridan had taken up his headquarters at Fort Hayes, in order to be in the field to superintend the campaign in person.
There were ten chances at thirty dollars each, and they were all quickly taken.
In this connection it will not be out of place to state that during the time I was hunting for the Kansas Pacific, I always brought into camp the best buffalo heads, and turned them over to the company, who found a very good use for them.
CHAPTER fifteen.
I soon had thirteen laid out on the ground, the last one of which I had driven down close to the wagons, where the ladies were.
As has already been stated, his appearance was not very prepossessing, and nobody suspected him of being anything but the most ordinary kind of a plug.
The score now stood fifty six to thirty seven, in my favor.
Everybody was surprised, as well as disgusted, that such a homely "critter" should be the winner.
This made my sixty ninth buffalo, and finished my third and last run, Comstock having killed forty six.
They proved to be a herd of cows and calves-which, by the way, are quicker in their movements than the bulls. We charged in among them, and I concluded my run with a score of eighteen, while Comstock killed fourteen.
The friends of the rider laughed at him for being mounted on such a dizzy looking steed.
Although I am getting ahead of my story, I must now follow Brigham for a while.
The end of the track finally reached Sheridan, in the month of May, eighteen sixty eight, and as the road was not to be built any farther just then, my services as a hunter were not any longer required.
After we had eaten a lunch which was spread for us, we resumed the hunt.
It frightened some of the tender creatures to see the buffalo coming at full speed directly toward them; but when he had got within fifty yards of one of the wagons, I shot him dead in his tracks.
Again the excursion party approached, and once more the champagne was tapped.
On this morning the buffaloes were very accommodating, and I soon had them running in a beautiful circle, when I dropped them thick and fast, until I had killed thirty eight; which finished my run.
While taking a short rest, we suddenly spied another herd of buffaloes coming toward us.
When all the preliminaries had been arranged, the signal was given, and off went the horses for Wyandotte.
Could we have looked into the innermost spirit of him and his life's partner, we should have seen that mixed with the pride of his poverty there was some feeling of disgrace that he was poor, but that with her, regarding this matter, there was neither pride nor shame. The realities of life had become so stern to her that the outward aspects of them were as nothing.
"I know that it is.
"Miss Robarts, I am afraid you must excuse me," said he, getting up and taking his hat and stick.
"But some of them are mine," said the boy; "ain't they, Grace?"
Would it not be a good work?
But, nevertheless, Grace was a pretty, simple looking girl, and clung to her ally closely, and seemed to like being fondled.
"Of all my own acquaintance, mrs Crawley, I think, comes nearest to heroism."
"Greek Delectus and the irregular verbs!" And Lucy put up her hands with astonishment.
"Yes; I have heard of it," said mr Crawley, gravely.
"But you may get better preferment."
"But he will have the house, will he not?"
"It is all that I can give them," said mr Crawley, apologetically. "A little scholarship is the only fortune that has come in my way, and I endeavour to share that with my children."
God has tried us with want, and for my children's sake I am glad of such relief."
But what can I do?
"And are you a great scholar?" asked Lucy, drawing the child to her.
I suppose you have heard of his good fortune?"
Dear mrs Robarts, you must not be surprised at him.
"Oh, yes; there is nothing here but this young gentleman's library," said Lucy, moving a pile of ragged, coverless books on to the table. "I hope he'll forgive me for moving them."
"It is a mistake.
When they were again in the pony carriage, behind the impatient Puck, and were well away from the door, Fanny was the first to speak.
"I beg Puck's pardon.
"Well, Lucy, we must drive ourselves, that's all.
CHAPTER twenty one.
"We'll take you to Barchester for that.
It was now the month of April, and the fields were beginning to look green, and the wind had got itself out of the east and was soft and genial, and the early spring flowers were showing their bright colours in the parsonage garden, and all things were sweet and pleasant.
The pony carriage is wretched for three."
"No, I could not.
The parish duty was better attended to, and perhaps domestic duties also.
But she did not betray herself.
He ought to know that she is a mere automaton, cold, lifeless, spiritless, and even vapid.
It is parish business about which I am going, so it need not irk his conscience to stay in for me."
"You had better say earlier, as he is always out about the parish."
He now felt that he might accept the stall without discredit to himself as a clergyman in doing so. Indeed, after what mr Sowerby had said, and after Lord Lufton's assent to it, it would have been madness, he considered, to decline it.
"The house will not be furnished, will it, Mark?" said his wife.
"I really think she is; not what I should call lovely, you know, but very beautiful.
"Well, no; I think not.
"She never told her love," nor did she allow concealment to "feed on her damask cheek." In all her employments, in her ways about the house, and her accustomed quiet mirth, she was the same as ever.
It's horridly improper to care about such a thing, I have no doubt."
"Very well, say eleven.
And, Fanny, don't tell Mark to put me into a lunatic asylum.
What would the men do? and what-oh! what would become of the women?
At such period he was a pattern parson and a pattern husband, atoning to his own conscience for past shortcomings by present zeal.
In this she showed the peculiar strength which God had given her.
He was going very nicely."
She liked to rule, and she made people feel that she liked it.
I do like Lord Lufton very much; and I do dislike Griselda Grantly almost as much.
Miss Grantly will have a large fortune, I believe."
Our own medical outfit, which was bought in Christiania, and according to the vendor's statement unusually well packed, became in a short time so damaged that the whole of it is now entirely spoilt.
One man was sufficient to set up the tent in the stiffest breeze; I have come to the conclusion that the fewer poles a tent has, the easier it is to set up, which seems quite natural.
It was easy to tie the end of the cover together like the mouth of the sack, and this kept the snow out of the bag during the day's march.
We also had quantities of loose straps.
The method is both simple and reliable.
The sole was to be thick and stiff -- for we had to be prepared to use crampons -- but the uppers as soft as possible.
The others consisted of trousers and jacket with hood.
We then went to work to make clothes after the pattern of the Netchelli Eskimo, and the sewing went on early and late -- thick anoraks and thin ones, heavy breeches and light, winter stockings and summer stockings.
We attached great importance to having the bags made of the very best sort of skin, and took care that the thin skin of the belly was removed.
Now, it is a fact that if one can wear soft foot gear exclusively the risk of frost bite is far less than if one is compelled to wear stiff boots; in soft foot gear, of course, the foot can move far more easily and keep warm.
There could be no better recommendation than this.
Milk powder is a comparatively new commodity with us, but it deserves to be better known.
I want the ski to be a part of oneself, so that one always has full command of them.
The whole supply was a very acceptable gift.
We also took dried milk from a firm in Wisconsin; this milk had an addition of malt and sugar, and was, in my opinion, excellent; it also kept good the whole time.
I have already spoken of the pemmican.
It is extraordinarily light and strong, and keeps the wind completely out.
Besides the pemmican, we had biscuits, milk powder, and chocolate.
They were specially baked for us, and were made of oatmeal with the addition of dried milk and a little sugar; they were extremely nourishing and pleasant to the taste.
These biscuits formed a great part of our daily diet, and undoubtedly contributed in no small degree to the successful result.
First the reindeer skins had to be bought in a raw state, and this was done for me by mr Zappfe at Tromsoe, Karasjok, and Kaatokeino.
There is never any trouble with this apparatus; it has come as near perfection as possible.
There was no question of this with our tents.
It came from the district of Jaederen.
This all came complete from a firm in Stockholm.
There is not a speck of rust on needles, scissors, knives, or anything else, although they have been exposed to much damp.
Nothing was left to each sheep but a wee little stump where a tail should be, and Little Bo Peep was so heart broken that she sat down beside them and sobbed bitterly.
"Of course; do not the sheep know you?"
And now
"But where is your crook?"
In that year the young prince espoused Catherine of Arragon, our present queen, and soon afterwards died; whereupon the old king, not liking-for he loved his treasure better than his own flesh-to part with her dowry, gave her to his second son, Henry, our gracious sovereign, whom God preserve!
Awed by Mark's determined manner, the bystanders kept aloof.
To the castle!
"Yield, fellow!"
"Why, Mark, you are clean crazed!"
"A foolish wish," cried Bryan.
Duck him!
"I am accustomed to colored ones.
What's this?"
It is an extraordinary likeness.
"Cried?" echoed Miss Carlyle.
Sir Francis Levison?
"When the result of the accident was communicated to you, you made inquiry yourself into its truth, its details, I believe?"
Look well."
Out of the pea soup before he was quite dead, quite senseless.
"I am as sure that she is dead as that we are living," decisively replied the earl: and he spoke but according to his belief.
She arose; her face burning, her heart throbbing.
"My eyes are not strong."
Here!
Miss Carlyle followed her in.
Certain it is, that the ominous sound of "Duck him," was breathed forth by a voice, and it was caught up and echoed around.
The pond be close at hand.
Look at the two, and contrast them.
Could it be?
"Yes, sir."
"It was my duty to do so.
One pulled him, another pushed him, a third shook him by the collar, half a dozen buffeted him, and all abused him.
"Mercy!
"Here!
Had she interfered for his protection, she could not have been heard; and if she could have been, there's no knowing whether she would have done it.
"Was it a positively ascertained fact that Lady Isabel died?"
"And you see him, that pitiful outcast, who is too contemptible to live?
"It wouldn't have done her harm had they ducked her too," was the angry response.
"You see him-my brother Archibald?"
They dragged him through a gap in the hedge, a gap that no baby could have got through in a cool moment; but most of us know the difference between coolness and excitement.
A pause.
Do you mean Madame Vine?"
What did she think of his beauty now?
Died?
But why wear colored glasses?
Convincing proofs; and Miss Carlyle lent her ear to them.
The laborers, their duty done, walked coolly away; the tagrag withdrew to a safe distance, waiting for what might come next; and Miss Carlyle moved away also.
Him put up for others at West Lynne!
What's up?
She died in the course of the same night.
"I did to day," returned Miss Carlyle.
Mercy!" shrieked the victim, his knees bending and his teeth chattering-"a little mercy for the love of Heaven!"
Did she come to repentance, think you?"
"Yes!" was the gaping answer.
She put them on, there and then, Miss Carlyle's eyes searching her face inquisitively all the time.
"Duck him!
You are sure that she is dead?"
He'd have burst with it, if he hadn't, I expect; I never saw a chap so excited.
But she returned to the charge, as if difficult to be convinced.
Certainly she died."
I know what she thought of her past folly.
The hedge was extensively damaged, but Justice Hare, to whom it belonged, would forgive that.
Much he knows of Heaven!"
"Of a surety I did.
Miss Carlyle turned to the earl.
"It's very odd," thought Miss Corny.
peter cried."
"There was no difference," she murmured, and then she took courage and spoke more openly.
"I see him," faltered Lady Isabel.
mr Drake and the lawyer-for the other was a lawyer-were utterly powerless to stop the catastrophe.
"What did she go into hysterics for?" again snapped Miss Carlyle.
They were passing a spectacle shop, and Madame Vine had halted at the door, one foot on its step.
Let's give him a taste of his deservings!
The earl stared with all his might; he thought it the strangest question that ever was asked him.
Out upon you for a bold, bad man!"
Joyce was silent.
There was no one else to undertake it."
"Did you ascertain positively, beyond all doubt, that she did die?"
Quite a collection of gentlemen-mr
He objected.
"I didn't see her, and I was present."
What on earth had put him into that state?
"Joyce," resumed Miss Carlyle, abruptly changing the subject, "who does the governess put you in mind of?"
Miss Corny paused.
Miss Carlyle never spoke a word.
"The governess?
"And I can tell you, Joyce, that I was confounded at the likeness.
They set upon him, twenty pairs of hands at least, strong, rough, determined hands; not to speak of the tagrag's help, who went in with cuffs, and kicks, and pokes, and taunts, and cheers, and a demoniac dance.
Soon after mr Carlyle was left alone another clerk entered.
I have invited-"
I have invited a party for to night."
Clean curtains are just put up throughout the house, and I'll have no horrid pipes to blacken them."
He says he is innocent."
"Presently, Miss Barbara.
"At West Lynne!"
Would it be advisable to acquaint her?"
"They shan't come!" screamed Miss Carlyle.
We will dine a little earlier, though, Cornelia, say a quarter before six.
She had died and left one child.
mr Carlyle smiled.
An ominous sound of talking; the justices were evidently coming forth.
"I think so."
You are so clever, you can do anything."
"I thought business would have called me out, but I am not going now.
"Sit down, Barbara," he said drawing her chair closer.
"You are very clever, Archie, but you can't do me.
Was this the purport of Richard's visit-to say this?"
A trifling matter, relating to a little money.
"Send in Miss Carlyle first," was the answer.
Come at seven, not later, and you will find my father's old jar replenished with the best broadcut, and half a dozen churchwarden pipes.
"If so, I must send to the bank.
"What's up, Archibald?" interrupted Miss Carlyle.
"What is it, Cornelia?"
Can you manage to see Richard?"
"Ah!
mr Carlyle knew her and her resolute expression well, and he took his course, to tell her the truth.
His confidential clerk and manager stood near him.
"Can I see mr Carlyle?"
"Is he at their house?"
"Richard Hare!
mr Dill rose from his seat and shook hands with her.
"It is only natural.
"Why-what on earth!" began she, "have you been with Archibald for?"
"It would be-it might be-death!"
It would look so peculiar to see me here; but mamma was too unwell to come herself-or rather, she feared papa's questioning, if he found out that she came."
The justices are with him."
It's nothing, indeed."
Shall it be so?"
"Not until evening.
I am very busy, Cornelia, and Colonel Bethel is waiting; I will talk to you at dinner time.
Stay, that's your dinner hour; be walking up the street at three, three precisely; I will meet you."
Miss Carlyle did not believe a word.
"Miss Carlyle is asking to see you, sir, and Colonel Bethel's come again."
"It-it might excite suspicions; some one might see me, too, and mention it to papa.
And, oh, Archibald!
mr Carlyle bent forward and spoke in a whisper.
Is he mad?"
Barbara sat down again, but her manner was hurried and nervous.
If mr Hare and the other magistrates are there, ask them to step over to me."
"Do you think I'll be poisoned with tobacco smoke from a dozen pipes?"
It was mr Dill, a little, meek looking man with a bald head.
"A farm laborer's, the best he could adopt about here, with large black whiskers.
"Up!
And Archibald generally submitted, for the force of habit is strong.
"Have you told me all?" he asked presently, lifting them.
How can I give my orders?"
"Four or five of the justices are coming in to smoke their pipes.
I ask you: to hear your opinion about the scrape the bench have got into, is yours.
"Go to the Buck's Head.
Richard Hare has returned."
mr
Neither ought you to send to our house."
"What Thorn?" asked mr Carlyle, suppressing all signs of incredulity.
"A party!" echoed Miss Carlyle.
And now," continued Barbara, "I want you to advise me; had I better inform mamma that Richard is here, or not?"
"They are gone now, and the coast's clear, Miss Barbara."
The whole five accepted the invitation eagerly.
He must not see me.
I should like to know what you and Barbara do with a secret between you."
"Nor they either.
A clerk answered it.
"And now, Cornelia, I really must beg you to leave me."
mr Dill shut me into his room."
"Well-contrive to be in the street at four this afternoon.
"I don't know; a friend of Afy's, he said.
He had dropped his eyelids in thought.
He is engaged just now.
"The doors are double doors; did you notice that they were?"
"Richard!" repeated mr Carlyle.
Can you devise any plan?
Lawton, do you feel easy?"
"Katy, is he gone?"
"But happily nothing is broken. It is wonderful how well you escaped!"
He died about two hours and ten minutes before the cock crowed, as near as we can say." She was interrupted by the physician, who, approaching, inquired, with much interest, the nature of the disorder.
Who administered to the case?"
"I have been a tumbler from my youth, and I am past minding a few falls from a horse; but, Sitgreaves," he added with affection, and pointing to a scar on his body, "do you remember this bit of work?"
"It is now too late; but a dose of oil would carry off the humors famously."
"Hearts," repeated Katy, catching her breath.
"If them lights he spoke of were what was called northern lights in these parts?"
"Quite probable."
Miss Peyton entered into the situation of things at the house of the peddler, with all the interest of her excellent feelings; she listened patiently while Katy recounted, more particularly, the circumstances of the past night as they had occurred.
"Certainly," said Lawton, with unexpected condescension.
"I expect he has made his last will and testament."
"Perfectly well, Jack; it was bravely obtained, and neatly extracted; but don't you think I had better apply an oil to these bruises?"
"I agree with you as a whole; but as matter is infinitely divisible, so no case exists without an exception.
"For, Miss Peyton," continued the housekeeper, after a pause to take breath, "I would have given up life before I would have given up that secret.
I wonder if I have no claim on the house and garden; though they say, now it is Harvey's, it will surely be confiscated." Turning to Lawton, who had been sitting in one posture, with his piercing eyes lowering at her through his thick brows, in silence, "Perhaps this gentleman knows-he seems to take an interest in my story."
"It is not only cruel to the sufferer, but sometimes unjust to others, to take human life where a less punishment would answer the purpose. Now, Jack, if you were only-move your arm a little-if you were only-I hope you feel easier, my dear friend?"
Some time was occupied in joint attentions to the comfort of the wounded officer, and the doctor retired to an apartment prepared for his own accommodation; here, within a few minutes, he was surprised by the entrance of Lawton.
"Oh!" cried the maiden, again correcting herself, "for the best of all reasons; there was none to be had, so I took care of him myself.
"Kindly, you may be certain," said Katy, rather tartly.
"Quite."
But it is my lot to meet with men, daily, who are equally perverse, and who show a still more culpable disrespect for the information that flows from the lights of science."
"No one yet," said the housekeeper, with quickness.
"Very."
The substance of her tale was, that a child who had been placed by the guardians of the poor in the keeping of Harvey, had, in the absence of its master, injured itself badly in the foot by a large needle.
"It is doubtless wise to be prepared for death.
Katy drew up in evident displeasure, and prompt to vindicate her character for more lofty acquirements, she said,--
"Were you related, then, to Birch?" asked Miss Peyton, observing her to pause.
My brothers told me, again and again, to ask for my money; but I always thought accounts between relations were easily settled."
He was impelled, by a feeling that he could not conquer, however, to look Captain Lawton in the face.
"And care thrown away I may well call it; for Harvey is quite too despisable to be any sort of compensation at present."
"The doctor means medically, madam," observed Captain Lawton, with a face that would have honored the funeral of the deceased.
"Does Captain Lawton want anything at my hands?"
"Why," returned the housekeeper, hesitating a little, "I thought we were as good as so.
The arrival of the peddler had altered the whole of this admirable treatment; and the consequences were expressed by Katy, as she concluded her narrative, by saying,--
"Much."
"With simples," returned the surgeon.
Glancing her eye over the figure of this new acquaintance, Katy instinctively adjusting her dress, replied,--
"He has duties that require his presence elsewhere; the English are said to be out by the way of the Hudson, and they give us light troops but little rest.
The morning found them all restored, in some measure, to their former ease of body, with the exception of the youthful captain of dragoons, who had been so deeply regretted by Dunwoodie.
"But I think mr Dunwoodie has taken a liberty that exceeds the rights of consanguinity; he has made our father's house a hospital."
"On the march, Isabella?" eagerly inquired her brother.
"Oh!
"If you can pardon the rudeness," said the wounded officer, making a feeble effort to raise his body, "I would request to have Captain Lawton's company for a moment."
"It must have been Miss Jeanette Peyton-a lady of fine accomplishments, with-hem-with something of the kind of step you speak of-a very complacent eye; and as to the bloom, I dare say offices of charity can summon as fine a color to her cheeks, as glows in the faces of her more youthful nieces."
"It depends on the way you count.
She was young, and of a light and fragile form, but of exquisite proportions.
"True-true," cried the colonel, with animation.
"The tongue is well, and the pulse begins to lower again.
The lady burst into a flood of tears.
"At least they would have been, had they made an attack," said the captain, throwing the rest of his clothes within reach of the colonel.
"Had it petticoats, George?"
"Your pulse even and soft, your skin moist, but your eye fiery, and cheek flushed.
"You now have the fruits of rebellion brought home to you; a brother wounded and a prisoner, and perhaps a victim; your father distressed, his privacy interrupted, and not improbably his estates torn from him, on account of his loyalty to his king."
If it be not to enable us to decide in such matters, of what avail the lights of science?
"You must be silent!
If you begin at the heel of life, well; but if you reckon downward, as is most common, I think she is nearer forty."
Her hair was luxuriant, and as it was without the powder it was then the fashion to wear, it fell in raven blackness. A few of its locks had fallen on her cheek, giving its chilling whiteness by the contrast a more deadly character.
His case, young lady, exceeds my art to heal; and I take it Sir Henry Clinton is the best adviser he can apply to; though Major Dunwoodie has made the communication with his leech rather difficult."
"Dunwoodie!
Her eyes were large, full, black, piercing, and at times a little wild.
"Then it was necessary to rout the guides, you know, and the movement gave them the best possible opportunity to charge."
"What, Isabella!
In a few minutes the travelers approached the gate. It was thrown open by a dragoon who followed the carriage, and who had been the messenger dispatched by Dunwoodie to the father of Captain Singleton.
If," she added, with a tremulous lip, "this dreadful suspicion that is affixed to his visit were removed, I could consider his wound of little moment."
"We ought to be grateful that none of the patients it contains are dearer to us."
"Lawton," said the youth, impatiently, as the trooper entered, "hear you from the major?"
Even that perverse fellow, john Lawton, could not behave with more obstinacy."
Frances continued her walk in silence.
"As respectfully as you please, my dear sister; there is but little danger of exceeding the truth."
"The excellent fellow is never weary of kind actions.
"And why not himself?"
I thought to have met him by the side of my brother's bed."
And who sent for her?"
"Very true," replied the captain, kicking a slipper towards the bed. "Had we succeeded in getting a few good fires upon them in flank, we should have sent these brave Virginians to the right about."
While facing the northern entrance to the vale, her eyes were uniformly fastened on the point where the road was suddenly lost by the intervention of a hill; and at each turn, as she lost sight of the spot, she lingered until an impatient movement of her sister quickened her pace to an even motion with that of her own.
"The major."
"That is a question the major can answer best; but you know the redcoats are abroad, and Dunwoodie commands in the county; these English must be looked to."
You must observe quiet, and prepare for a meeting with your own sister, who will be here within an hour."
"Growing symptoms of a febrile pulse-no, no, my dear George, you must remain quiet and dumb; though your eyes look better, and your skin has even a moisture."
The meeting between the brother and sister was warm, but, by an effort on the part of the lady, more composed than her previous agitation had given reason to expect.
But, Isabella, the meeting has been too much for you; you tremble."
"Doubtless it is his duty.
"She must be under twenty," said the other, quickly.
"Do you suppose he sits up too late?" asked Brenda.
Hasn't anyone told you how the other fellows made him run blindfolded in his shirt sleeves down Beacon Street?"
"I believe it's all perfectly true," said Nora.
Don't let her do it, Edith."
If there was any one thing in the world he hated-so he said-it was girls' talk, this jabbering about nothing.
"He is always pale," said Edith.
"Well, you'd better talk, Brenda Barlow," broke in Nora again.
"No, I haven't happened to," answered Philip.
Though only about four years their senior, he seemed much older than Brenda and her friends.
"You never hear anything.
"She's invited to my cooking party next week," said Nora.
"Oh, yes, I've heard it too," interrupted Philip.
"And upon my word," he concluded, "I wasn't sorry, for the New York set is getting just unbearable.
Philip hurried off, bowing in a very grown up way to the group of girls. For whatever criticisms any one might make about Philip's indolence and disinclination to study, no one could deny that he had very good manners.
"Are you afraid they'd get ahead of you?" asked Edith, gently.
He makes out that they are better than ours, but I can't say that I see it myself."
"Oh, I don't know exactly, but I heard my brother talking the other day. He says there are two or three fellows just sponging off of Philip all the time, and Philip is too good-natured to say anything."
"Oh, he won't like that kind of a girl," hastily interposed Belle.
"Well, I wish myself that our English instructor hadn't such a fondness for reading themes to us that the girls have written.
"I shouldn't think there'd be much fun in making anybody uncomfortable."
"I should say not," exclaimed Nora; but Belle, who had some New York cousins, was silent.
"Why, when he saw where he was, he didn't run away, or flunk out.
"I've heard that some professors say that their Annex classes do better work than ours,--but anybody can tell that that's all rot."
"But see here, it's five o'clock now and I have an engagement down town."
They very seldom lasted long.
"How funny you are, Edith," said Belle.
"What was it?" asked Edith.
"Oh," said one girl, and "Ah," said another; and "How silly!" they all cried together.
"How can you?" cried Nora.
"Boys never like a girl who studies; especially one who is going to College."
I tell you we make some of them suffer."
"If you went to College you'd see more use in them."
"Wasn't he mad at the two fellows for taking him there?"
If she'd been born in Boston----"
"It seemed to me he was just a little pale."
"Who gets the best marks?"
"Oh, say, did you hear about the time Will Hardon had with the Dicky, last week?" he asked.
Philip looked over his shoulder in the glass.
"We don't knock each other down and run the risk of breaking one another's noses."
"I'm glad girls don't go to College."
Philip said "we" with a rather important air, although he had belonged to the illustrious organization a very short time.
"That's right," said Nora.
Brenda, however, noticing Belle's expression, and not feeling disposed to side completely with Nora, said,
But I wouldn't let a sister of mine go to College," he concluded inconsequently.
In the present instance the girls were ashamed of having shown temper before Philip.
"Just see the way you treat Julia.
"I wonder how he'll like Julia," said Edith.
"There isn't any danger of girls getting ahead of us."
"We don't fight like you boys," answered Edith, good humoredly.
He would have scorned to call it gossip.
"You know that you've accepted too, so you'll see her."
"Of course, really!"
"If girls amused themselves like that what fun you'd make of us!" said the practical Nora.
"It doesn't trouble me," answered the placid Edith.
"And then they led him up the steps into mrs Oxford's when she was giving an afternoon tea, and when they took the bandage off his eyes there he was in his shirt sleeves, without his hat, and his hair all tumbled, and everybody looking at him."
But I do think he might have better friends.
He really isn't very particular."
"It's a good thing Edith doesn't wish to go," said Nora; adding mischievously, "but Brenda Barlow's cousin Julia is going."
"I didn't say so," replied Nora.
"Oh, they hate to see these girls going about with books, and trying to get into Harvard."
"You don't mean to say you haven't seen her," cried Brenda in surprise.
"Friday, of course," replied Nora, "so we can sit up late without thinking about school the next day."
"But don't tell him I said so," she added with a blush.
"Of course not; that's a part of the thing.
Why, there are fellows in Cambridge who would go through fire and water, or stand on their heads in front of a pulpit for the sake of getting into the Dicky.
"And Philip is one of the nicest young men I know," said Brenda, politely, turning to Edith.
I guess I'd show him that New York isn't the whole world."
"There must be better ways of showing bravery," said the practical Edith.
"Well, you'll see me sure," said Philip.
"A matter of opinion," murmured Belle under her breath.
"Oh, some do!"
"I know all about Philip, and he's good enough for me."
There was nothing the matter with his own shapely nose, and I doubt that he would have run any such risk as Edith suggested.
"No, really?"
"Now, look here, Edith, I don't want you to talk that way," responded Philip with brotherly authority.
"How can you criticise Edith's brother?
"I'm sure I can't say.
There was one good thing about the little disputes in which Brenda and Belle indulged.
A SOPHOMORE
Not he! He was a Harvard sophomore, and realized his own importance quite as much as the girls did.
When Edith's brother Philip came in from College to spend Saturday and Sunday, Edith's house was apt to be a rendezvous for the other girls. Not that Philip was likely to waste much time with mere girls.
"Does Julia wear glasses, or look green?
"Not girls we know."
"Well, I declare," exclaimed Nora, "I'd like to know what difference it makes to them."
"Do you think that Philip looks very well, Edith," asked Belle when he had left the room.
"I don't treat her," interrupted Brenda.
Nora nodded.
"Why, what do you mean?"
"No, but that's what you mean, and I'm surprised, Philip Blair, that a boy should be so awfully one sided."
"We knew something about his manners."
"Always stand up for your brother.
"She's about the nicest girl I know."
"Oh, I say," said Philip, from his place in front of the mantelpiece, "how queer girls are; do you always fight like this when you're together?"
"Yes, trying to break down the walls," said Nora, sarcastically.
"Oh, yes, by the way," said Philip, "what evening is it?"
She, too, had a brother in College.
"Oh, it gives a fellow a chance to show what kind of stuff he's made of," explained Philip, "whether he has good manners, and whether he's clever-and all that."
Perhaps this was the reason why Philip was not a fighter.
Years before they had all been playmates together, but his two years in College had taken him away from them, and it was not often that he condescended to spend as long a time in their presence as had been the case this afternoon.
"Oh, she is lovely," added Edith.
"What?"
But still there was always the chance that he would come into the room just for a minute, and tell them some of the latest Cambridge news.
"Anywhere out of the world."
"There's a train at nine o'clock in the morning.
The bell ringer adjusted a monocle and ambled down the steps to shake hands.
"Not yet."
Neither couple knows where the other is going.
But they aren't onto that yet." Harmon's clear brown eyes twinkled.
"Oh, it isn't as bad as that.
Or which one of the numerous institutions you maintain in your private city?"
Unless they all happen to take the same train, one pair won't even know the other is around until they meet up on the lake or in the woods."
It ended by the Englishman bestowing two dollars upon mr Murphy to get a message to mr Remsen containing a protest and an address.
I nearly forgot.
Among mr Harmon's many endearing virtues is this: he never asks questions about other people's troubles.
"Sounds like a party."
Any other agreeable surprises about the resort?"
mr Harmon was then admitted through a crack scarcely adequate to his well set, muscular frame, to the presence of mr Jacob Remsen, who wore an expensive dressing gown and an expression of unutterable boredom.
It was done almost as well as that accomplished actor, mr Jacob Remsen, could have done it.
"England?
How would it be if the taxi I arrive in should catch fire at the psychological moment?"
"Rather.
"What does the thing look like?"
"No butt in about it.
"It certainly seems made to order.
For a time mr Murphy regarded him disdainfully, then crossed over, held brief colloquy, and returned.
"Hot chance he's got of breaking in," he observed to mr Harmon.
Two fellows I know are getting married to morrow.
When he was restored to his feet and his breath, and the taxi had ceased to imitate Fafnir the Dragon, a tall figure in an extremely English ulster (which had hastily emerged from the Remsen front door, rushed down ten steps, and leisurely climbed them again) was wrenching violently at the bell.
"Oh, certainly!" assented the other with bitterness.
"Laid up?" inquired mr Harmon, shaking hands.
Tickets had been provided by the forethoughtful Harmon.
The two conspirators elaborated their plan, built it up, revised it, tested it at every point, and pronounced it perfect.
"What?
"Reads like a real-estate man's prospectus," observed Remsen.
Want to join?"
"no Oh, yes.
FIVE times mr Thomas Harmon vainly rang the bell of the Remsen mansion. While engaged upon the sixth variation he became aware of a face in the window, scrutinizing him.
"What on earth are you doing over here?"
Refuges furnished to order.
I've got an amendment.
The two gentlemen then moved away in the extinguished taxi.
They're on oath."
The fugitive was the first man in the parlor car.
"He didn't when I came in."
"Where do you want to go?"
"Care to try?"
That's at the third corner of my little triangular piece of mountain and forest.
Excuse me with thanks."
"Then I'll just go back and jolly well camp there till somebody jolly well lets me in," decided the caller.
Remsen meditated.
"Hm!
"What is he making all the fuss about?" inquired that gentleman as the visitor again applied himself forcefully to the bell.
They get off at Meredith and go in on the truck.
Plumb in the dead center of nowhere. Thirteen miles from a railroad.
He did so.
But the old bulldog of a butler won't let him put his nose inside the door.
Seclusion is her watchword.
"Who?"
Not know a man with whom you toured for two months in Japan?" said Remsen reproachfully.
At the end of the ten seconds you will be seen going up the steps to the front door.
"Well met, m'deah fellah!
If you see her, make a noise like a dry leaf and blow away.
Butt in on a double bridal tour?
Hardly had he settled when a young couple in suspiciously new apparel arrived, and were shown into Drawing Room "A," at the upper end of the car.
"Doesn't it?
"Then why not fool him by coming in?"
"I'll tell you," proffered the obliging and innocent mr Murphy.
Fortified by my accent, it is most convincing.
"As good as any.
Perhaps you can tell me what's amiss with this beastly house."
Girl.
The Lees will be at the cottage.
"Just this.
"They won't thank you when they meet across the dinner table."
"Can it be done?"
Yes, I'll just take you up on that."
"Put on a suit of tights and dive out of the conservatory window disguised as Annette Kellerman, I suppose."
"How the devil can I come in without going out?" demanded mr Remsen crossly, for confinement was beginning to tell upon his equable disposition.
"Bottled up," answered the young man gloomily.
"All right," called the face.
I've got some things to attend to."
"Great!
The Woods I'm sending to the Island.
You can go to Laconia, get yourself a car from the garage, and motor to the Bungalow.
Tired out.
"It's a blockade."
"I get you.
So Miss Greene wished her on Boulder Brook, and welcome."
"Right o, old thing!
"Hard and fast."
Presently you will be seen coming down again, unable to effect an entrance against the watchfulness of the faithful Connor.
I've got it.
To morrow?"
"Leave that to me."
"That's your best make-up, is it, Remsen?"
"A worse looking one comes on at ten and stays all night."
You'll go, won't you?"
"Cast your eyes toward the Avenue and you'll see one."
"Am I supposed to know him?"
Shortly after, another couple, also glistening as to garb, entered and took possession of Drawing Room "B," at the lower end of the car.
Cheery o!" said his host Britishly.
I'm to be in disguise.
"Boulder Brook on Lake Quam.
Not much to look at, is he?"
Be here at eight thirty.
"Easily.
"Now, about our jail breaking scheme?
It's a double wedding.
It's a dead secret.
"Here we are, all of us," he said to himself, retiring discreetly behind his newspaper.
Argument followed while the chauffeur burrowed into the mechanism of his car.
"Make it the day after.
"Haven't you any of your amateur theatrical duds here?" was the outcome of his cogitations.
They'll be a mile apart.
He'll do it to you when you go out."
Or the co-educational Club?
Good old Roddy! Certainly.
"Wants to see mr Remsen.
I've loaned the place to both couples for a fortnight.
"This year," pursued Harmon, "I'm keeping open house for a special reason.
From its door emerged mr Thomas Harmon, who rolled upon the pavement apparently strangling. mr Murphy rushed to his aid.
"Simplest thing in the world if you'll be guided by me."
"Wouldn't know them if I did.
"Merely a matter of distracting Friend Murphy's attention for ten seconds.
You've never been to my place in the mountains, have you?"
"One half won't know how the other half lives till they get there.
"Stupid of me," confessed Harmon, grinning.
Fishing and hunting on the premises."
Friend Murphy on watch hauls out his little paper and on the chance of its being me, slaps the wrist of anybody who appears on those steps.
"Where do I go when I get out?"
Did you ever kill a subpoena server?"
mrs Bond, my housekeeper, is looking after her.
I'm not a manufacturer of chemicals for nothing."
"But we've forgotten one point," said Remsen at the end of the discussion.
"Can I help?"
And it's mighty good of you, old man.
Don't know what it is or who she is, but she's up against it for a month's rest.
He now busied himself in thought.
Promptly at that hour, on the second morning thereafter, a taxicab swerved violently into the curbstone almost at the feet of the patient and vigilant Murphy, and stopped with an alarming scrunch of brakes. From its window emerged a heavy puff of smoke.
"Possibly.
"I see," said the visitor.
"Spill it."
"What's that?"
But how shall we get the process server off guard?"
"No, he wouldn't, coming in."
"Nor I!" cried Brenda, "at a Harvard game!"
"Well, I don't care," rejoined Brenda, "it's hard enough to have Julia tagging about everywhere, but why in the world we should have ruth Roberts, when we never see her anywhere except at school, I really cannot understand, and I don't see how you and Nora can like it either."
"You can see yourself that this is different," she answered.
"What for?
"Yes, I know, but still----"
Why, Belle, I cannot imagine your doing anything else."
I'm glad to hear you talk so sensibly, Brenda.
"The least said, the soonest mended, and let us all go to the game with a crimson flag in each hand to wave for the winners."
"Oh," said Nora, "I didn't know that you thought that people had to be so very devoted to cousins."
thirteen
"Crimson," cried Belle, "I am going to carry an orange scarf, and perhaps an orange flag."
Then Belle added a final word.
"I should call it very impolite if there were no orange flags shown at the game."
There isn't a bit of sense in knowing people that we'll never see when we're in society," responded Belle, while Brenda echoed, "Yes, that's what I think, too."
But I don't see," turning rather snappishly towards Brenda, "why the rest of us have got to take up ruth Roberts just because your Cousin Julia is so devoted to her."
Nora's temper was not easily ruffled.
why I never heard of such a thing!" exclaimed Nora.
Those girls who had brothers in college, or even cousins or friends, held themselves with more dignity than any of the others, and those who had relatives in the team "were too proud for anything," as Brenda said.
"Well, you have the most ridiculous ideas, hasn't she, Brenda?"
It was to be a game with Princeton, one of the great University matches, and for special reasons there was the deepest interest in the match.
The "Four" were as excited as the others, although not so many of their own particular friends were in the Harvard team.
"Isn't it a Princeton game, too," asked Belle, "two or three of the boys I used to know in New York are in that team, one of them is a kind of cousin of mine."
No one who saw the hearty way in which Nora and Brenda greeted ruth, as she came up with Edith and Julia, could for a moment have imagined that she had been under discussion.
I can hardly wait for Saturday."
"I'm not a child," responded Belle very crossly, walking away from Nora and Brenda, "I do not need to be told what to do."
What Nora or Brenda might have answered, I cannot say, for hardly had Belle disappeared within the house, when Edith herself appeared, with Julia and ruth.
Edith at this time became unusually popular, because it was known that her mother had given her permission to arrange a large party to accompany her to the game, and every girl was hoping for an invitation-every girl, at least who had not been invited elsewhere to go in some other party.
GREAT EXPECTATIONS
"I know that you can't guess."
"Oh, don't be silly, Nora, it wouldn't be worth while to guess about something you'll know all about so soon, except that you speak as if it were some one we might not care to have, and if that's the case, I declare it's too bad," said Belle.
Even Belle herself could not help smiling at this, which was very appropriate, following so closely, as it did, her own remarks about Julia.
If you hadn't, I was going to tell Belle that it seems to me that Edith has a right to ask any one she wishes.
She is always very good to us all, and just think how many tickets her father has bought for this game!"
"Why, who is it?" cried Brenda, and "Who is it?" echoed Belle.
"Oh," cried Belle, and "Ah," echoed Brenda.
Then they gossiped a moment in a very harmless fashion about the prospects of Harvard, and Edith quoted one or two things that Philip had said, and Nora told them that her father was perfectly sure that the crimson would win, and as they trooped into the dressing room when the bell rang, Belle was surprised to see Brenda leaning on Ruth's arm.
The game was to be played in Holmes' Field, and tickets were not easy to get, because the seats were far less numerous than now on the great Soldiers' Field.
Oh dear!
"Oh, well," said Nora laughing, "the whole thing is not worth quarreling about.
"If it's anything like that," broke in Brenda, rather snappishly, "I will just tell Edith what I think."
I should think that you would see that yourself."
For a week before Thanksgiving there was great excitement among the schoolgirls on account of the approaching football game.
ruth was a pretty and amiable girl, about Julia's age, and therefore a little older than "The Four." She had been in the school for two years before the coming of Julia, but in all that time she had had only a speaking acquaintance with the other girls.
She naturally was pleased at the prospect of going with the others, for like Julia, she had never seen a great football game.
"Oh, it's clear that this is all Julia's doings; ever since ruth went into her Latin class they have been awfully intimate.
Nora smiled pleasantly, and her eyes looked brighter than ever under the rim of her brown felt hat, with its trimmings of lighter brown.
"I never said that Harvard was my side," interrupted Belle, "didn't I tell you that I have a cousin on the Princeton team."
Can anyone be surprised that we called it the Devil's Glacier?
Meanwhile the sastrugi grew smaller and smaller, and finally they disappeared altogether, and the surface became quite flat.
In this way we worked up about two hundred feet, but then we came upon such a labyrinth of yawning chasms and open abysses that we could not move.
It required some study to find a way out of the trap we had run ourselves into.
Thank God we were not here while this was going on, I thought to myself, as I stood looking out over this battlefield; it must have been a spectacle like doomsday, and not on a small scale either.
Some were sharp, but most were long and rounded.
All the qualities that I most admire in a man were clearly shown at that juncture: courage and dauntlessness, without boasting or big words.
november twenty seventh did not bring us the desired weather; the night was filled with sharp gusts from the north; the morning came with a slack wind, but accompanied by mist and snowfall.
Suddenly I saw Hanssen's dogs shoot ahead, and downhill they went at the wildest pace, Wisting after them.
Our companions were no less pleased with the news we brought of our prospects.
From the south round to the west the fog lay as thick as gruel.
It took, nevertheless, a remarkably short time to cover the distance we had explored on the previous evening; before we knew it, we were at Hell's Gate.
I shouted to Hanssen to stop, and he succeeded in doing so by twisting his sledge.
A sledge journey through the Sahara could not have offered a worse surface to move over.
I see that my diary for november twenty eighth does not begin very promisingly: "Fog, fog -- and again fog.
It was not far away -- on the contrary, it seemed threateningly near and right over us.
That question was unanswerable; possibly a week, or even a fortnight, and we had no time for that.
This was the photographer, who, in passing over this snow bridge, struck his ski into it to try the strength of the support.
Strictly speaking, I should now have been going in advance, but the uneven surface at the start and the rapid pace afterwards had made it impossible to walk as fast the dogs could pull.
As we were advancing, still blindly, and fretting at the persistently thick weather, one of us suddenly called out: "Hullo, look there!" A wild, dark summit rose high out of the mass of fog to the east south-east.
We saw well enough that this would be a difficult place to pass with sledges and dogs, but in default of anything better it would have to be done.
We stopped and looked at the imposing sight, but Nature did not expose her objects of interest for long.
Thanks to his presence of mind and a lightning like movement -- some would call it luck -- he managed to save himself.
They had to drive with great circumspection and patience to grapple with the kind of ground we had before us; a slight mistake might be enough to send both sledge and dogs with lightning rapidity into the next world.
The last thing to be done was planting a broken ski upright by the side of the depot.
Wisting came near to sounding the depth of one of these dangerous crevasses with sledge, dogs and all, as the bridge he was about to cross gave way.
It was therefore important to have as little as possible on the sledges.
Luckily for us, the snowfall of the last few days had filled these up, so as to present a level surface.
We set to work at once to build the depot; the snow here was excellent for this purpose -- as hard as glass.
Our day's march was eighteen and a half miles.
We were in the middle of a fairly steep descent; what there might be below was not easy to decide, nor would we try to find out in that weather.
It was practically impossible to keep one's eyes open; the fine drift snow penetrated everywhere, and at times one had a feeling of being blind.
Poor beasts, they have toiled hard to get the sledges forward to day." But the day did not turn out so badly after all, as we worked our way out of this uncertainty and found out what was behind the pitch dark clouds.
Behind this group the air had been heavy and black the whole time, showing that more land must be concealed there.
The descent on the south was too abrupt, but on the south-east it was better and more gradual, and ended in a wide, level tract.
It could not be a storm, or it would have been already upon us.
We trampled down a place for the tent in the loose snow, and soon got it up.
From this mass, right across our course, ran a great, ancient glacier; the sun shone down upon it and showed us a surface full of huge irregularities.
Our altitude that evening was eight thousand six hundred fifty feet above the sea -- that is to say, at the foot of the glacier we had reached an altitude of eight thousand four hundred fifty feet, or a drop from the Butcher's of two thousand five hundred seventy feet.
It was to the south we had to go, and there it was possible to go forward a little way.
The boiling point test that evening showed that we were ten thousand three hundred feet above the sea, and that we had thus gone down six hundred twenty feet from the Butcher's.
The language we used about the glacier as we went was not altogether complimentary; we had endless tacking and turning to get on.
It was heavy going, though better than on the previous day.
The fourteen dogs' carcasses that were left were piled up in a heap, and Hassel's sledge was set up against it as a mark.
It was Wisting who did this, thinking, presumably, that an extra mark would do no harm.
The spare sets of dog harness, some Alpine ropes, and all our crampons for ice work, which we now thought would not be required, were left behind.
During the evening the wind moderated a little, and went more to the east; we went to sleep with the best hopes for the following day.
Something extraordinary must await us farther on, but, what?
This formation -- like every -- thing else on the glacier was obviously very old, and for the most part filled with snow.
Well content with our morning's work, we turned in again and slept till six a m, when we began our morning preparations.
It was a fairy landscape in blue and white, red and black, a play of colours that defies description.
The dogs were not much inclined to start, and it took time to get them into their harness, but at last we were ready.
The others, who were following, stopped when they came up to him.
So far the incline had not been so great as to cause uneasiness, but if it seriously began to go downhill, we should have to stop and camp.
But, taking into account all the turns and circuits we had been compelled to make, it was not so short after all.
We examined the compass from time to time, and went forward cautiously.
"Shall we try it?" No sooner was the proposal submitted than it was accepted unanimously and with acclamation.
After putting ample brakes on the sledge runners, we started off downhill in a south easterly direction.
The two small black figures in the distance, on the right, are Hassel and I, who are reconnoitring ahead.
But right in our line of route -- straight on to the glacier -- it looked, as far as we could see, as though we could get along.
Close to the tracks can be seen an open piece of the crevasse; it is a pale blue at the top, but ends in the deepest black -- in a bottomless abyss.
The beacons we had put up came to our aid, and for our final success we owe a deep debt of gratitude to our prudence and thoughtfulness in adopting this expedient.
The distance according to our three sledge meters was eighteen and a half miles; taking the bad going into consideration, we had reason to be well satisfied with it.
This is, after all, the worst part of one's job -- turning out of one's good, warm sleeping bag, and standing outside for some time in thin clothes, watching the weather.
What did it mean?
To advance in that direction, then, was hopeless, but that was no great matter, since our way was to the south.
The sun showed as yet like a pat of butter, and had not succeeded in dispersing the thick mists; the wind had dropped somewhat, but was still fairly strong.
It would, no doubt, have been better if we could have halted, set up our tent, and waited for decently clear weather, so that we might survey the ground at our ease and choose the best way.
As soon as this was done Hanssen and I set out to explore.
It was our intention to lighten our sledges before tackling the glacier; from the little we could see of it, it was plain enough that we should have stiff work.
It appeared to be quite isolated, and to consist of four mountains; one of these -- Mount Helmer Hanssen -- lay separated from the rest.
We had all taken a turn outside to look at the weather, and were sitting on our sleeping bags discussing the poor prospect.
Amid joking and chaff, everything was packed, and then -- out into the blizzard.
In a short time an immense erection of adamantine blocks of snow rose into the air, containing provisions for five men for six days and for eighteen dogs for five days.
Our altitude came out at nine thousand four hundred seventy five feet above the sea, or a drop of eight hundred twenty five feet in the course of the day.
The tent was not only drifted up, but covered with ice, and in taking it down we had to handle it with care. so as not to break it in pieces.
We therefore all slept with one eye open, and we knew well that nothing could happen without our noticing it.
This is the fifth day, and it's blowing worse than ever." We all agreed.
Also fine falling snow, which makes the going impossible.
A number of small articles were also left behind.
The weather improved in the course of the day, and when we camped in the afternoon it looked quite smiling.
One more glance over the camping ground to see that nothing we ought to have with us had been forgotten.
In the course of the night the wind had gone back to the north, and increased to a gale.
saturday november twenty fifth, came; it was a grand day in many respects.
That it was a happy thought the future will show.
We might risk falling into some chasm before we had time to pull up.
And then we were off: It was a hard pull to begin with, both for men and beasts, as the high sastrugi continued towards the south, and made it extremely difficult to advance.
There was thus no great sign of depression to be noticed when we came back into the tent after finishing our work, and had to while away the time.
We knew by experience that a gleam like this, a clearing in the weather, might come suddenly, and then one had to be on the spot.
We were roped, and therefore safe enough.
It was blowing and snowing so that when we came out in the morning we could not see the sledges; they were half snowed under.
The fog prevented our seeing far, but the immediate surroundings were enough to convince us that with caution we could beat up farther.
The descent was easy and smooth, and we reached the plain without any adventure.
As I went in, I could descry Wisting a little way off kneeling on the ground, and engaged in the manufacture of cutlets.
The surface remained about the same -- possibly rather more undulating.
They had undergone a remarkable change since our arrival at the Butcher's Shop; they now wandered about, fat, sleek, and contented, and their former voracity had completely disappeared.
What we could see of the glacier appeared to be pretty steep; but it was only between the south and south-east, under the new land, that the fog now and again lifted sufficiently to enable us to see anything.
We continued our course in the constant expectation of finding some surprise or other in our line of route.
If our progress was nevertheless slow and difficult, this was due to the wretched going, which was real torture to all of us.
At any rate, our companions acknowledged the justness of the name with ringing acclamations when we told them of it.
On the side nearest to the mountain these disturbances were such that a hasty glance was enough to show us the impossibility of advancing that way.
The surface, which had become perfectly level, had the appearance at times of sinking; in any case, one would have thought so from the pace of the sledges.
The wind aft, no doubt, helped the pace somewhat, but it alone could not account for the change.
This surprised me greatly.
For that matter, the site of the depot was so well marked by its position under the foot of the glacier that we agreed it would be impossible to miss it.
It was not a long day's march that we had done -- eleven and three quarter miles -- but we had put an end to our stay at the Butcher's Shop, and that was a great thing.
We kept it going, however, by using the utmost caution.
The north-east wind whistled and howled, the air was thick with driving snow, and Wisting was not to be envied.
The weather, which had somewhat improved during the night, had now broken loose again, and the north easter was doing all it could.
There was nothing to be done but to find the least disturbed spot, and set the tent there.
I had already seen proofs on several occasions of the kind of men my comrades were, but their conduct that day was such that I shall never forget it, to whatever age I may live.
We turned in and went to sleep.
The fog came and went, and we had to take advantage of the clear intervals to get our bearings.
We went on like this, slowly enough, but the main thing was that we made progress.
The air ahead of us was as black as pitch, as though it concealed something.
The gleam came; it did not last long, but long enough.
As regards ourselves, a day or two longer made no difference; our most important article of diet, the pemmican, was practically left untouched, as for the time being dog had completely taken its place.
He had a most pertinacious way of poking his nose into all sorts of affairs, not at all after the manner of the usual pig, but more like a village gossip who wants to know about everything that is going on in the neighborhood.
The good old day, so dear to the hearts of Americans, was made more glorious by the exchange of camp hospitalities and an indulgence in such simple hilarity as the occasion seemed to require; but "Jeff" was not forgotten.
He was an ill conditioned little mite that had probably been abandoned by a heartless mother, possibly while escaping from the prospective mess kettle of a Confederate picket.
He developed all the playful qualities of a puppy and reasoned out a number of problems in his own way.
History records the fact that a large number of animals were brought from Spain for food, and that a considerable number of them succeeded in getting away from the expedition soon after the landing was effected.
The origin of this particular species of the porcine tribe is unknown, but there is a tradition to the effect that their progenitors were a part of the drove that came to the coast of Florida with De Soto when he started on the march which ended with the discovery of the Mississippi River.
They advance to the attack with the greatest impetuosity, and a feast upon snake is the usual reward of exceptional bravery.
In a short time he came to the repair shop very much the worse for wear, with an impaired digestion and a cuticle that showed unmistakable evidence of scurvy.
As days and weeks went on, there appeared an improvement of appetite that was quite phenomenal, but no accumulation of flesh.
JEFF THE INQUISITIVE
In his right ear was a red ribbon, in his left a white one; around his neck another of blue.
"Jeff" was a confirmed lover of good eating, and in time paid the usual penalty for over indulgence of his very piggish appetite. While the meal pennant was up, it was his habit to go from one fore castle mess to another, and to insist upon having rather more than his share of the choice morsels from each.
He was seen after he had run a few yards to make a great jump, and then remain in his tracks.
He had no favorites, but was hail fellow well met with all.
Early in the morning he was bathed and scrubbed, more than to his heart's content, and then patriotically decorated.
He attached himself to each individual of the ship.
His pleasure upon those occasions was evinced by the emission of frequent good-natured grunts and looking up into the face of the friendly stroker.
In this act of courtesy he is always accompanied by the officer of the deck, and often by others that may happen to be at hand.
His treatment of his crew made him one of the most popular officers in the whole fleet.
The Fourth of July, eighteen sixty two, was a gala day at Roanoke Island.
It was decided to put him on a light diet of milk, which proved an immediate success, for, within forty eight hours after his first meal, the patient became as lively as possible.
Under this treatment poor "Jeff" lost all his buoyancy of spirits and his habitual friskiness, and became sad and dejected, but bore his troubles with patience.
His particular admirers declared that he learned the meaning of the different whistles of the boatswain: that he knew when the meal pennant was hoisted to the peak; could tell when the crew was beat to quarters for drill, and often proved the correctness of this knowledge by scampering off to take his place by one particular gun division, which seemed to have taken his fancy.
In the gradual development of "Jeff's" character, it was discovered that he had none of the usual well-known traits of the pig.
The doctor was consulted, and after a careful diagnosis, decided there was no organic disease: want of parental care, want of nourishment and exposure, were held responsible for "Jeff's" unfavorable condition.
He entered into all of their sports and sympathized with the discomforts of forecastle life.
He was more like a petted and pampered dog, was playful, good-natured, and expressed pleasure, pain, anger, and desire, with various squeals and grunts, delivered with a variety of intonations that were very easily interpreted.
It may be said of him, generally, that he was overflowing with spirits, and took an active interest in all the daily routine work of his ship.
At the time of which I am writing, his ship carried quite a collection of tame birds and four footed favorites.
For the first he was put upon short rations; for the second, sand baths on shore were prescribed.
During this triumphant march over the island an incident occurred which developed the slumbering instinct of the swamp "racer." In a second, as it were, and seemingly without cause, "Jeff" was seen to move off at a tremendous pace at right angles with the line of march.
His legs and body grew longer; and, with this lengthening of parts, there came a development of intellectual acuteness that was particularly surprising.
Among them was a singular little character, known as "Jeff." He was a perfectly black pig of the "Racer Razor Back" order, which, at that time, were plentiful in the coast sections of the more southern of the slave holding States.
He took to the sand baths at once, and gave forth many disgruntled grunts when lifted out of them.
Colors were flying, bands playing, drums beating, patriotic steam was up to high pressure.
In those days Confederate pickets were not very particular as to the quality or kind of food, and I have a suspicion that even a "Razor Back" would have been a welcome addition to their meal.
The last time I saw "Jeff," in eighteen sixty two, he was buried up to his ears in the cool sands of the Roanoke Island shore, with eyes upturned and looking like a very sad pig, but I fear none the wiser for his offenses against the rights of a well regulated digestion.
He was never so happy as when in the lap of one of the sailors, having his back stroked.
Thus adorned he was brought on shore to pay me a visit, and as he came through my door he appeared to be filled with the pride of patriotism and a realization of the greatness of the occasion.
Hogs of this particular kind are famous snake killers-a big rattler or a garter snake is all the same to them.
They were called "racers" because of their long legs, slender bodies, and great capacity for running; and "Razor Backs" on account of the prominence of the spinal column.
The pursuing party found him actively engaged in demolishing a moccasin, which he had crushed by jumping and landing with his feet upon its head and back.
When "Jeff" was brought on board, his pitiful condition excited the active sympathy of all, from the commander down to the smallest powder monkey, and numerous were the suggestions made as to the course of treatment for the new patient.
Except in speech and appearance he was the counterpart of a happy, good-natured, and well cared for household dog-possibly, however, rather more intelligent than the average canine pet.
He was fond of animal pets, and always welcomed the arrival of a new one.
"Nonsense!" shouted the Caterpillar, "I know what's possible, and what's not possible, according to my experience and capacity, as well as you do.
There was the shaggy Dog who sometimes came into the garden.
At that moment she felt something at her side.
Here, take this gold dust from my wings as a reward.
How should a poor crawling creature like me know what to do without asking my betters?"
But to tell me that Butterflies' eggs are Caterpillars, and that Caterpillars leave off crawling and get wings, and become Butterflies!--Lark! you are too wise to believe such nonsense yourself, for you know it is impossible."
"Nay, but you do not," replied the Lark; "you won't believe me even about the food, and yet that is but a beginning of what I have to tell you.
And when she was a Butterfly, and was going to die again, she said-
"I shall be a Butterfly some day!"
But still there was a difficulty-whom should the Caterpillar consult?
Now in the neighbouring corn field their lived a Lark, and the Caterpillar sent a message to him, to beg him to come and talk to her, and when he came she told him all her difficulties, and asked him what she was to do to feed and rear the little creatures so different from herself.
"Butterflies, to be sure," said the Caterpillar.
The Caterpillar almost jumped for joy, and it was not long before she saw her friend descend with hushed note to the cabbage bed.
"Well, then, first of all, I will tell you what these little creatures are to eat.
But I have no time to look for another nurse now, so you will do your best, I hope.
You must give them early dew, and honey from the flowers, and you must let them fly about only a little way at first; for, of course, one can't expect them to use their wings properly all at once.
Guess!"
At last the Lark's voice began to be heard again.
"See these little eggs," continued the Butterfly; "I don't know how long it will be before they come to life, and I feel very sick and poorly, and if I should die, who will take care of my baby Butterflies when I am gone?
I would give all my legs to know!" And the green Caterpillar took another turn round the Butterfly's eggs.
But her relations thought her head was wandering, and they said, "Poor thing!"
"Let me hire you as a nurse for my poor children," said a Butterfly to a quiet Caterpillar, who was strolling along a cabbage leaf in her odd lumbering way.
By mrs Alfred Gatty
"No such thing, old lady!
But he was so rough!--he would most likely whisk all the eggs off the cabbage leaf with one brush of his tail.
Dear! dear!
And the Caterpillar talked all the rest of her life to her relations of the time when she should be a Butterfly.
There was the Tom Cat, to be sure, who would sometimes sit at the foot of the apple tree, basking himself and warming his fur in the sunshine; but he was so selfish and indifferent!
"I believe everything I am told," observed the Caterpillar, hastily.
"And fool you!" cried the indignant Lark.
"That is what you call-"
I will ask your advice no more."
Why, her senses must have left her or she never would have asked a poor crawling creature like me to bring up her dainty little ones!
By degrees his voice died away in the distance, till the green Caterpillar could not hear a sound. So she resumed her walk round the Butterfly's eggs, nibbling a bit of the cabbage leaf now and then as she moved along.
"Wretched bird!" exclaimed the Caterpillar, "you jest with my inferiority-now you are cruel as well as foolish.
"Perhaps you will be able to inquire and hear something about it next time you go up high," observed the Caterpillar, timidly.
"I told you you would not believe me!" cried the Lark, nettled in his turn.
"I thought the Lark had been wise and kind," observed the mild green Caterpillar, once more beginning to walk around the eggs, "but I find that he is foolish and saucy instead.
"I wonder where he is just now!
She nevertheless had learnt the Lark's lesson of faith, and when she was going into her chrysalis grave, she said-
Dear me! it is a sad pity you cannot fly yourself.
"Their dying mother knew nothing about the matter," persisted the lark; "but why do you ask me, and then disbelieve what I say?
"Then I'll tell you something else," cried the Lark; "for the best of my news remains behind.
I will consult some wise animal upon the matter, and get advice.
"I believe everything I am told," reiterated the Caterpillar, with as grave a face as if it were a fact.
"It was their dying mother's last request that I should do no such thing."
"Excellent! my good friend," cried the Lark, exultingly; "you have found it out.
You have neither faith nor trust."
And with these words the Butterfly drooped her wings and died; and the green Caterpillar, who had not had the opportunity of even saying Yes or No to the request, was left standing alone by the side of the Butterfly's eggs.
But none of them believed her.
Do you not hear how my song swells with rejoicing as I soar upwards to the mysterious wonder world above?
She looked round-eight or ten little green Caterpillars were moving about, and had already made a show of a hole in the cabbage leaf.
She made her back quite ache with walking all night round her young charges, for fear any harm should happen to them; and in the morning says she to herself-
Much they'll mind me, truly, when they feel the gay wings on their backs, and can fly away out of my sight whenever they choose!"
Soon afterwards, however, he went singing upwards into the bright, blue sky.
"I would tell you if you would believe me," sang the Lark, descending once more.
"I can get at nothing quite easily but cabbage leaves," murmured the Caterpillar, in distress.
"A pretty nurse she has chosen, indeed, poor lady!" exclaimed she, "and a pretty business I have in hand!
The Lark said, "Perhaps he should;" but he did not satisfy her curiosity any further.
What do you think it is to be?
"What a time the Lark has been gone!" she cried, at last.
But she got no sleep that night, she was so very anxious.
THE BUTTERFLY'S CHILDREN
Shame and amazement filled our green friend's heart, but joy soon followed; for, as the first wonder was possible, the second might be so too.
Something simpler than that.
"Fool, to attempt to reason about what you cannot understand!
Why, Caterpillar, what do you think those little eggs will turn out to be?"
You are to feed them with cabbage leaves."
However, there lay the eggs on the cabbage leaf; and the green Caterpillar had a kind heart, so she resolved to do her best.
I cannot think what made me come and lay my eggs on a cabbage leaf!
Look at my long green body and these endless legs, and then talk to me about having wings and a painted feathery coat! Fool!--"
"How am I to learn Faith?" asked the Caterpillar.
They had broken from the Butterfly's eggs!
"Two heads are better than one.
What a place for young Butterflies to be born upon!
Oh, how dizzy I am!
Go away!
"Oh, I believe everything I am told," said the Caterpillar.
"News, news, glorious news, friend Caterpillar!" sang the Lark; "but the worst of it is, you won't believe me!"
"Many thanks," answered the Beeches.
The Beeches went on growing, and at last quite overtopped the Little Oak.
"He is paid out for his boasting.
And their tops are so dense that the sunbeams cannot creep through them.
"You are quick people like me," said the Wind.
"If you are not pleased with me, you can go," answered the Oak proudly.
What an old stupid I was!
"Hold your tongue," he said, "and don't talk till you have something to talk about.
"I do not know these foreign words of yours," said the Oak.
It is competition which rules the world."
But I beg you to take notice that I am much older, and of good family besides."
The Beeches only laughed and went on growing.
I have been for a little tour abroad, I may tell you, and am just a little bit spoilt.
The Little Oak was shamefaced, and held his tongue; and the other big Trees spoke to one another in low whispers, for they had great respect for the old one.
All round new little Beech Trees shot up, which grew just as fast as their parents, and looked as green and as happy as if they did not know what an uneasy conscience was.
Before that, we Oak Trees were lords in the land; and now every year I see my brothers around me perishing in the fight against you.
"What are they?"
"It is dreadful the way you shoot up into the air," he said in vexation. "You are already half as tall as I am.
"Oak timber is better than Beech timber," they said.
And in return for all this you stifle me."
"True," muttered the Bear.
"Here you may see what I have for you."
Then he said to the Beech Trees,--"What was I thinking of when I helped you on in your young days?
But the Oaks talked the whole day long one to another about the funny Trees he had told them about.
But the Old Oak took his foster children under his protection.
The Old Oak heard what he said very plainly, and the other Trees also; but they said nothing.
There was scarcely anything except Trees.
I assure you the Wind gives one's head a good shaking. My old boughs have creaked many a time; and what do you think will become of the flimsy finery that you stick up in the air?"
And the whole summer passed by, and another summer after that, and still more summers.
But the Little Oak could not bear the strange Trees.
Just see where your branches are soaring.
Towards autumn the Bear came back and lay; down under the Old Oak. "My friends down there wish me to present their compliments," he said, and he picked some funny things out of his shaggy coat.
But before I die I should like to know the name you give to such conduct."
"If they come, you shall treat them politely, you young dog," said he.
And after this they composed themselves to rest.
The Little Oak had grown ever so much.
Then he made off.
But so far as ever I can see, there is nothing but Oak Trees."
But at last they came.
He was very proud of it, and he thought that he had now the right to join in the conversation.
There were only a few human beings there in those days, and those that there were were nothing better than wild animals.
"What is it?" asked the Oak.
"You should try to grow a little broader, and stop this shooting up into the air.
The Bear, the Wolf, and the Fox went out hunting, while the Stag grazed by the edge of the fen.
They are tall, slim Trees, not crooked old things like you.
The day before yesterday they killed my wife and one of my brothers, and I must see about finding a place where I can live in peace.
"I call it mean ingratitude." And then he died.
How will you be able to hold out when a regular storm comes?
"It is, of course, a mere story; the Bear wishes to impose upon us," said the other.
And when the spring came the grass stood green, and the birds began singing where they left off last.
Then the Oak's lowest branch died, and he began to be seriously alarmed.
There have been scarcely any buds on my lowest branches this year, you overshadow me so."
So they put forth flowers and fruit, and when the fruit was ripe the Wind shook the boughs and scattered it round far and wide.
By this time there were many more human beings in the land than there were before, and they made haste to hew down the Oaks while there were still some remaining.
It was a real pleasure there to take a midday nap, I assure you."
There were no railways either, and no cultivated fields, no ships on the sea, no books, for there was nobody who could read them.
The winter came and tore all their leaves off them, the snow lay high over the whole land, and every Tree stood deep in his own thoughts and dreamt of the spring.
"Thanks," said the Little Beeches, and they said no more.
"We can grow very nicely in the shade."
"Let us see what comes of it," said the Old Oak.
"They are taking our strength out of us," they said, and shook as much as the Beeches around would let them.
When I come back I will bring some Beech nuts with me, and I vow you will all turn yellow with jealousy when you see how pretty the new Trees are."
"You are welcome among us," said the Old Oak, and graciously inclined his head to them.
Years went by, and the Beeches went on growing, and they grew till they were tall young Trees, which reached up among the branches of the Old Oak.
"The kings of the wood do not come till the whole company is assembled."
"Beech Trees?" said the Oak inquisitively.
"You begin to be rather pushing," the Old Tree said.
"I like you for it, and am glad to do you a good turn." And the Fox rolled on the ground at the foot of the Beech Trees and got his fur full of the prickly fruits, and ran with them far out into the country.
But Trees there were in plenty.
"Shall I bend my branches a little aside so that the sun can shine better on you?" the Old Tree asked politely.
THE BEECH AND THE OAK
It will soon be all over with me, and not one of my acorns has sprouted under your shade.
"I don't quite understand how that concerns us," answered the Beeches.
"What on earth can those Trees be?" said one of them.
One day the Bear came trudging along and lay down at full breadth under a great Oak Tree, "Are you there again, you robber?" said the Oak, and shook a lot of withered leaves down over him.
"If they come, I will kill them," said the Little Oak Tree, but directly afterwards he got one on the head from the Old Oak.
"Keep your leaves to yourself," cried the Oak; "you overshadow me, and that is what I can't endure.
"The land is ours no longer." One bough died after another, and the Storm broke them off and cast them on the ground.
If you have a spark of honourable feeling alive in you, be good enough to move your leaves a little to one side.
When they knew this perfectly, they had finished their education.
There is scarcely a spot left where a self respecting Bear can stay.
There were no towns then with houses and streets, and church steeples domineering over everything.
When the Bear had shambled off, the Trees looked at one another anxiously.
"It is a pity I cannot stay and see how angry you will be," he growled, "but those confounded human beings have begun to press one so hard.
"But I don't want to chatter any more with you just now. I have had to trot a mile on account of a confounded hunter who struck me on one of my hind legs with an arrow.
But the Old Oak gazed sadly out over the wood.
"Stuff and nonsense!" said the Beeches.
But now you must behave yourselves, Little Beeches, or I will give you a clout on the head."
The Beeches laughed with their little, tiny green leaves, but said nothing.
"But they will not come."
"That is just what is so sickening.
But in this the Old Oak was wrong, for they did come.
Not one of them had forgotten what the Bear had told them, and every morning when the sun came out they peeped down to look for the Beeches.
"It serves him right," he said.
"You are pretty things," he said, "if this is the way you reward me for my hospitality.
But by his side stood an old gnarled Tree, who gave the Little Oak a clout on the head with one of his lowest boughs.
The Oak Trees alone stood with leafless boughs.
Bend them properly, as you see us do.
"It is the most dignified thing to come last!" they said to one another.
It was in a land down towards the south-there I took a nap under the Beech Trees.
"You shall be my foster-children, and be treated just as well as my own."
"You should not squander your leaves, my old friend," said the Bear, licking his paws.
"That is all the shade you can give against the sun"
And they were right.
At last they closed together over the Little Oak's head, and then he died.
All the leaves burst forth from the swollen buds, and the Trees looked at one another and complimented one another on their beauty.
"At last we get a little appreciation," said the old Oak, "but we have to pay for it with our lives."
"Every one has quite enough to do to look after himself. If he is equal to his work, and has luck, it turns out well for him; if not, he must be prepared to go to the wall.
The flowers came up in multitudes from the earth, and everything looked fresh and gay.
There were no schools, for there were not many boys, and those that there were learnt from their father to shoot with the bow and arrow, to hunt the stag in his covert, to kill the bear in order to make clothes out of his skin, and to rub two pieces of wood together till they caught fire.
"This is the way it's done where we come from, and we are perhaps as good as you are."
"Oh, how pretty they are!" said the Great Oak, and stooped his crooked boughs still more, so that they could get a good view of them.
And one day the little shoots did at last burst forth from the earth.
But the Bear got up and rubbed his eyes.
The Bear did the same, and grinned into the bargain at the Old Oak while he lay and rested in the shadow of the Beeches.
The Field Mouse sat outside his hole and ate acorns, and the Beaver built his artistic houses by the river banks.
Goodbye, you old, gnarled Oak Trees!"
The Field Mouse was beside himself with joy over his new food, and thought that Beech nuts tasted much nicer than acorns.
When you were little I let you grow at my feet, and sheltered you against the storm, I let the sun shine on you as much as ever he would, and I treated you as if you were my own children.
They all knew each other, for they belonged to a great family, and were proud of it.
The Old Oak had now only a few leaves left at the very top. "The end is near," he said gravely.
The light green Beech leaves were peeping out everywhere, and the Oaks were sighing and bewailing their distress to one another.
"That is not a polite way of speaking to an old Tree with moss on his boughs," said the Oak.
"Nothing has come yet of the Bear's Beech Trees," he said jeeringly, at the same time glancing anxiously up at the Old Oak, who used to give him one on the head.
At one of these orchard grounds, we encamped about noon to make an effort for mr Preuss.
We watched them anxiously, as now we dreaded a snow storm.
They appeared so near, that we judged them to be among the timber of some of the neighboring ridges; but, having them constantly in view day after day, and night after night, we afterwards found them to be fires that had been kindled by the Indians among the tulares, on the shore of the bay, eighty miles distant.
Green grass began to make its appearance, and occasionally we passed a hill scatteringly covered with it.
Charles Towns, who had not yet recovered his mind, went to swim in the river, as if it was summer, and the stream placid, when it was a cold mountain torrent foaming among the rocks. We were happy to see Derosier appear in the evening.
The voice grew rapidly nearer, ascending from the river, but when we expected to see him emerge, it ceased entirely.
At the end of four days, mr Preuss surprised and delighted his friends by walking into camp.
One man took his way along a spur leading into the river, in hope to cross his trail, and another took our own back.
On the southern shore of what appeared to be the bay, could be traced the gleaming line where entered another large stream; and again the Buenaventura rose up in our mind.
In the meantime mr Preuss continued on down the river, and unaware that we had encamped so early in the day, was lost.
The ground round about was very rich, covered with an exuberant sward of grass; and we sat down for a while in the shade of the oaks to let the animals feed.
We took with us some of the best animals, and my intention was to proceed as rapidly as possible to the house of mr Sutter, and return to meet the party with a supply of provisions and fresh animals.
In the course of the morning we struck a foot path, which we were generally able to keep; and the ground was soft to our animals feet, being sandy or covered with mould.
"The sky was clear and pure, with a sharp wind from the northeast, and the thermometer twenty below the freezing point.
"Carson and I climbed one of the nearest mountains; the forest land still extended ahead, and the valley appeared as far as ever.
"Near night fall we descended into the steep ravine of a handsome creek thirty feet wide, and I was engaged in getting the horses up the opposite hill, when I heard a shout from Carson, who had gone ahead a few hundred yards.
We repeated our shouts for mr Preuss; and this time we were gratified with an answer.
It was some few seconds before I could recover myself in the current, and Carson, thinking me hurt, jumped in after me, and we both had an icy bath.
Carson sprang over, clear across a place where the stream was compressed among rocks, but the parfleche sole of my moccasin glanced from the icy rock, and precipitated me into the river.
Continuation of Fremont's Account of the Passage Through the Mountains.
He came in, and sitting down by the fire, began to tell us where he had been.
Shortly the advance party reached Sutter's Fort where they received the most hospitable treatment.
"We began to be uneasy at Derosier's absence, fearing he might have been bewildered in the woods.
It appeared that he had been lost in the mountain, and hunger and fatigue, joined to weakness of body, and fear of perishing in the mountains had crazed him.
"Carson had entered the valley along the southern side of the bay, but the country then was so entirely covered with water from snow and rain, that he had been able to form no correct impression of watercourses.
In a short distance we crossed a little rivulet, where were two old huts and near by were heaps of acorn hulls.
Ignorant of the character of these people, we had now additional cause of uneasiness in regard to mr Preuss; he had no arms with him, and we began to think his chance doubtful.
He had lived on roots and acorns and was in the last stages of exhaustion.
"Axes and mauls were necessary today to make a road through the snow. Going ahead with Carson to reconnoitre the road, we reached in the afternoon the river which made the outlet of the lake.
Among these, the prevailing tree was the evergreen oak (which, by way of distinction, we shall call the live oak); and with these, occurred frequently a new species of oak, bearing a long, slender acorn, from an inch to an inch and a half in length, which we now began to see formed the principal vegetable food of the inhabitants of this region.
They were forty to fifty feet high, and two in diameter, with a uniform tufted top; and the summer green of their beautiful foliage, with the singing birds, and the sweet summer wind which was whirling about the dry oak leaves, nearly intoxicated us with delight; and we hurried on, filled with excitement, to escape entirely from the horrid region of inhospitable snow, to the perpetual spring of the Sacramento.
"The opposite mountain side was very steep and continuous-unbroken by ravines, and covered with pines and snow; while on the side we were travelling, innumerable rivulets poured down from the ridge.
All along, the river was a roaring torrent, its fall very great; and, descending with a rapidity to which we had long been strangers, to our great pleasure oak trees appeared on the ridge, and soon became very frequent; on these I remarked unusually great quantities of mistletoe.
He imagined he had been gone several days, and thought we were still at the camp where he had left us; and we were pained to see that his mind was deranged.
The day had been one of April; gusty, with a few occasional flakes of snow; which, in the afternoon enveloped the upper mountains in clouds.
The pack horse was found near the camp, but Derosier did not get in.
"We had hard and doubtful labor yet before us, as the snow appeared to be heavier where the timber began further down, with few open spots. Ascending a height, we traced out the best line we could discover for the next day's march, and had at least the consolation to see that the mountain descended rapidly.
We had called up some straggling Indian-the first we had met, although for two days back we had seen tracks-who, mistaking us for his fellows, had been only undeceived by getting close up.
We tried to search a while for my gun, which had been lost in the fall, but the cold drove us out; and making a large fire on the bank, after we had partially dried ourselves we went back to meet the camp.
It would have been pleasant to witness his astonishment; he would not have been more frightened had some of the old mountain spirits they are so much afraid of suddenly appeared in his path.
For us, as connected with the idea of summer, it had a singular charm; and we watched its progress with excited feelings until nearly sunset, when the sky cleared off brightly, and we saw a shining line of water directing its course towards another, a broader and larger sheet.
mr Whistler married a woman who was herself an artist, and she was very proud of him.
"He is named for a great officer," answered Nicolas, remembering our General Washington, and he dispatched a letter to the Lowell engineer.
"I never expected," he wrote, "to hear a coxcomb ask two hundred guineas for flinging a pot of paint in the public's face!" Well, it did not look for a while as if there was any more good luck in the world for james Whistler.
The emperor was fond of the two boys and wanted them to stay on in Russia and be trained in the school for pages of the Court.
mr Ruskin had to pay the costs of the trial, which had mounted up to nineteen hundred dollars.
She used to say on Saturday afternoons: "Come, boys, empty your pockets and gather up your toys; we will put the knives and marbles away and get ready for Sunday." All day Sunday they were not allowed to read any book but the Bible.
At this academy he found he did not like to draw maps and forts nearly as well as he did human figures and faces.
But at this time I am sure no one could have been nicer.
They went skating, dressed in handsome furs; they learned the folk and fancy dances, joined in the winter sports, and voted Russia a fine country.
Whistler won the case.
One of them said it was worth nineteen hundred dollars to have heard the talk that went on in the court room.
Still their parents did not let them forget they were little Americans.
He traveled a great deal, painting views in many countries and studying the pictures of other artists.
Later, mr Whistler received much more than two hundred guineas for a single picture.
He meant to have it one of the best in the world.
james Whistler was always kind to young artists and liked to have them sit by him while he worked.
He is one of the founders of the city in which he lives, lowell massachusetts.
The major made haste to start for Russia, because the honor was great, and the payment would be generous.
You remember how many times he copied his own foot when he was a child.
Their mother was a fine woman, but sometimes they wished she would not be quite so strict.
Two famous ones, of which we often see prints, are "Portrait of my Mother" and the Scotch writer, "Carlyle." james Whistler's mother lived to be an old woman, as one can guess from the picture, and her son loved her just as dearly as he did when he beat the prancing horses away from her, in Russia.
He always was as polite to her as if she were the emperor's wife.
"What's his name?" asked Nicolas.
"He is Major George Washington Whistler.
He was born in Lowell and was such a cunning baby that everybody wanted his picture.
In among these was one white lock that dropped straight down over his forehead.
Instead of making a fuss about this, he used to call for pencil and paper and practise drawing feet until he could make very perfect ones.
The climate did not agree with james, and every time he caught cold he had touches of rheumatism, so that often he had to stay in the house and have his feet put in hot water.
Major Whistler soon sent for his family to join him in Russia.
Two portraits by this American artist hang in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, but most of them are owned in England.
For a long time he made a practice of drawing a picture of himself every night before he went to bed.
These pictures were very good, and when he was large enough to go to school the other children were apt to ask him to make animals and birds for them on the blackboard.
So he called an officer into his council chamber and said: "Now take plenty of time to look about in the different countries, have all the men you want to help you, but find me, somewhere, an engineer that will lay out a perfect railroad line." Men appointed by this colonel traveled some months.
He is a distinguished army officer and a fine engineer."
james was very careful of his mother, too.
He left his boys and his wife behind, because he did not know just how comfortable he could make them in the far off country, but he told the boys to be good and to mind their mother.
There was a trial in London, and the court room was crowded.
The French nation bought this portrait, and it hangs in the Luxembourg Museum, Paris.
One of his uncles, who loved him dearly, used to say: "It's enough to make Sir joshua Reynolds (this was a great English painter, who had died years before) come out of his grave to paint Jimmie asleep!" Jimmie had delicate features and long, silky, brown curls that hung about his face.
From the time he could scribble at all he drew pictures of everybody and everything in sight.
He earned very little making maps and could not afford to buy the real, narrow tailed coat which was proper.
One evening she had taken the boys in a carriage to see a big illumination.
mr Ruskin spoke, and what was worse, printed his opinion.
But their mother said they must grow up in America and hurried back to her own land.
It was a long, hard voyage there, and poor little Charlie died on the way.
They were very proud to be noticed by him, for long before he died he had received all kinds of honors and medals from foreign academies; and France, Germany, and Italy made him an Officer of the Legion of Honor, a Commander, and a Chevalier.
This looked like a tiny feather.
It was fortunate that james could go a long time without food, for it took nearly all he could earn from his pictures to buy paint and canvas for others.
However, he began to make money at last, and just as life seemed bright, an art critic, mr john Ruskin, declared that the Whistler pictures, which were being bought at big prices, were poor-very poor!
More than all his playthings he liked a pencil and paper.
When the judge awarded one farthing for damages (this is only a quarter of a cent in our money!), Whistler laughed and hung the English farthing on his watch chain for a charm.
That old, tiresome rheumatism kept bothering him, and by and by he had a long rheumatic fever.
She did not have much money to spend but thought james should go to West Point to get the military training his father had had.
He worked quite steadily and people began to say: "I think young Whistler is going to do great things some day." But suddenly he packed up and went to London.
james was a tall, handsome young fellow at this time, and liked to go about to dancing parties in the evening.
I want you to be sure and remember about this gentleness and patience, because when he was older people often accused him of being cross and rude.
The horses next their carriage were frightened, and reared and plunged as if they would hit the Whistler party.
Some were there because they already owned Whistler pictures and wanted to find out if they had paid good money for bad pictures; others because they were warm friends of the artist or the critic; but even more men and women went to hear the sharp questions of the lawyers and the clever answers of Ruskin and Whistler.
Bands were playing and rockets flying.
"The Duet", one of his pictures, shows his wife and her sister at the piano.
He was well scolded for this, I can tell you.
Once, when he had been sent to Washington to draw maps for the Coast Survey, he forgot what he was about and filled up the nice, white margins with pert little dancing folks.
Well, he was just as patient and thorough when he was older.
He loved art so well that he made water colors, pastels, etchings, and lithographs, as well as oil paintings.
james was the oldest in the family.
He did not get his fame without much hard work.
The Scotch people wanted to own the portrait of Carlyle, and the city of Glasgow was glad to pay five thousand dollars for it.
Then the colonel went back to the emperor and said: "The man you need to do this piece of work lives in the United States of America."
Some of his friends insisted on raising that sum for him.
The major worked too hard on the great railway and died before james was fifteen.
james shoved his mother down on the seat behind him, and standing in front of her, beat the horses back from them.
These boys were named james McNeill, William, and Charles.
He was a dear, patient boy, however, and afterwards declared he was almost glad he had it because some one who pitied the small invalid sent him a book of Hogarth's engravings.
They visited many cities, wrote letters, and asked advice.
I dare say that quite often when it was said: "james McNeill Whistler is growing rude and cross," the real truth of the matter was that james McNeill Whistler was hungry and worried.
james McNEILL WHISTLER
They are more likely," he added demurely, "to denounce it."
"Please forgive me, colonel, but when did your wife die?"
"A radical does not mean a man who lives on radishes," remarked Crook, with some impatience; "and a Conservative does not mean a man who preserves jam.
"Why is he so wild?"
Everything seemed undistinguished about the priest, even down to his name, which was Brown; yet the colonel had always found something companionable about him, and frequently asked him to such family gatherings.
That road goes down and down.
"Now, now, now," cried the Canadian farmer with his barbarian benevolence, "don't let's spoil a jolly evening.
"I will be pantaloon, if you like," said Colonel Adams, taking his cigar out of his mouth, and speaking for the first and last time.
When they ask for bread, and you don't even give them a stone, I think they might take the stone for themselves."
But this great French actor who played the policeman-this clever corpse the harlequin waltzed with and dandled and threw about-he was-" His voice again failed him, and he turned his back to run.
"I've got Florian's address here, and he knows every costumier in London.
Captain Barillon was the great gentleman apache before your time; he died in a madhouse, screaming with fear of the "narks" and receivers that had betrayed him and hunted him down.
The Flying Stars
Then it was that the strange actor gave that celebrated imitation of a dead man, of which the fame still lingers round Putney.
There is still youth and honour and humour in you; don't fancy they will last in that trade.
You know what I mean.
Fischer stood beaming benevolently and drinking deep of the astonishment and ecstasy of the girl, the grim admiration and gruff thanks of the colonel, the wonder of the whole group.
Neither, I assure you, does a Socialist mean a man who desires a social evening with the chimney sweep.
"I think I was meant to be a burglar," he said placidly, "and I have no doubt I should have been if I hadn't happened to be born in that nice house next door.
The winter afternoon was reddening towards evening, and already a ruby light was rolled over the bloomless beds, filling them, as it were, with the ghosts of the dead roses.
mr Crook shall be clown; he's a journalist and knows all the oldest jokes.
It was clever to come from Canada (with a Paris ticket, I suppose) just a week after mrs Adams died, when no one was in a mood to ask questions.
"I'll be columbine and you shall be pantaloon."
The priest opened them, and they showed again the front garden of evergreens, monkey tree and all, now gathering gloom against a gorgeous violet sunset.
We ought to look at once to the one man we don't know.
I must run after the criminal.
A Socialist means a man who wants all the chimneys swept and all the chimney sweeps paid for it."
I saw one when I left England at twelve years old, and it's blazed in my brain like a bonfire ever since.
"Oh, yes," says the man below, "I know all about it.
There are lower jokes than sitting on a top hat."
The athletic harlequin swung him about like a sack or twisted or tossed him like an Indian club; all the time to the most maddeningly ludicrous tunes from the piano.
"I think, my dear," he said, "you must get someone else for pantaloon."
"Well, well," observed Crook, airily, "don't let's quarrel.
Men may keep a sort of level of good, but no man has ever been able to keep on one level of evil.
"I won't have you talking like that," cried the girl, who was in a curious glow.
Both the others shifted sharply and the priest went on:
Here is the richer man-and none the richer."
Not blacking faces or sitting on hats, if you don't like those-but something of the sort.
"A saint," said Father Brown.
What is it, pray?"
You will sit up in your free forest cold at heart and close to death, and the tree tops will be very bare."
There was a startled stillness, and then the colonel said slowly, "Please say seriously what all this means."
With him also was the more insignificant figure of the priest from the neighbouring Roman Church; for the colonel's late wife had been a Catholic, and the children, as is common in such cases, had been trained to follow her.
For an instant it seemed seriously likely that he would stride across the footlights; then he turned a glare at the clown playing the piano; and then he burst in silence out of the room.
Long before this revelation was complete the two big doors of the porch had opened in the middle, and Colonel Adams (father of the furry young lady) had come out himself to invite his eminent guest inside.
The small man stooped to pick them up, and when he looked up again the green cage of the tree was emptied of its silver bird.
"I never know what you will say or do next," she said.
"Wife!" replied the staring soldier, "she died this year two months.
Stealing the stones, I suppose, was nothing to you.
What I say is, let's do something for the company tonight.
Flambeau would then proceed to tell the story from the inside; and even from the inside it was odd.
Lord Amber went into wild society in a sort of chivalry; now he's paying blackmail to the lowest vultures in London.
"You never did anything better, Flambeau.
Commonly he was a clever man, and he was inspired tonight with a wild omniscience, a folly wiser than the world, that which comes to a young man who has seen for an instant a particular expression on a particular face.
The green branch on which the glittering figure swung, rustled as if in astonishment; but the voice went on:
"Well, Flambeau," says the voice, "you really look like a Flying Star; but that always means a Falling Star at last."
The green gaiety of the waving laurels, the rich purple indigo of the night, the moon like a monstrous crystal, make an almost irresponsible romantic picture; and among the top branches of the garden trees a strange figure is climbing, who looks not so much romantic as impossible.
Indeed, her uncle, james Blount, was getting almost out of hand in his excitement; he was like a schoolboy.
Many a man I've known started like you to be an honest outlaw, a merry robber of the rich, and ended stamped into slime. Maurice Blum started out as an anarchist of principle, a father of the poor; he ended a greasy spy and tale bearer that both sides used and despised.
"But who won't allow you," put in the priest in a low voice, "to own your own soot."
All the big criminals are on the track; but even the rough men about in the streets and hotels could hardly have kept their hands off them.
Father Brown suddenly shouted with laughter, then stopped, and only struggled with it for instants during the rest of his speech. "Gentlemen," he gasped, "there's not much time to talk.
In front of the large hall fire, over which hung the colonel's sword, the process was completed and the company, including the saturnine Crook, presented to Sir Leopold Fischer.
"Nothing of the sort shall be suggested," said Colonel Adams, with a firm look at Fischer, which rather implied that some such thing had been suggested.
But they went at it with that mixture of recklessness and industry that lives when youth is in a house; and youth was in that house that night, though not all may have isolated the two faces and hearts from which it flamed.
"You ought to have a statue," cried the Canadian, as he came back, radiant, from the telephone.
"It's a better definition of Socialism than some recently given.
I'll phone him to bring a police dress when he comes." And he went bounding away to the telephone.
Oh, you will never do anything better.
"Letting a top hat sit on you, for instance," said the Socialist.
What do you call a man who wants to embrace the chimney sweep?"
The pantaloon sprang erect and strode out of the room.
"Any of you gentlemen mr Blount?" he asked, and held forward a letter doubtfully.
I came back to the old country only last year, and I find the thing's extinct.
In the large entrance hall of the house there was ample room even for Sir Leopold and the removal of his wraps.
Why couldn't we have a proper old English pantomime-clown, columbine, and so on.
He put a paper donkey's head unexpectedly on Father Brown, who bore it patiently, and even found some private manner of moving his ears.
The climax of this, as of all else, was the moment when the two front doors at the back of the scene flew open, showing the lovely moonlit garden, but showing more prominently the famous professional guest; the great Florian, dressed up as a policeman.
The curtain has gone up and down six times; he is still lying there."
It seems almost a pity I repented the same evening."
In point of fact it's Florian, that famous French acrobat and comic actor; I knew him years ago out West (he was a French Canadian by birth), and he seems to have business for me, though I hardly guess what."
This, however, was frowned down. "Uncle is too absurd," cried Ruby to Crook, round whose shoulders she had seriously placed a string of sausages.
First, one can gag to any degree; and, second, all the objects are household things-tables and towel horses and washing baskets, and things like that."
The silvery figure among the green leaves seems to linger as if hypnotised, though his escape is easy behind him; he is staring at the man below.
Seen from the outside it was perfectly incomprehensible, and it is from the outside that the stranger must study it.
The pantomime was utterly chaotic, yet not contemptible; there ran through it a rage of improvisation which came chiefly from Crook the clown.
The clown at the piano played the constabulary chorus in the "Pirates of Penzance," but it was drowned in the deafening applause, for every gesture of the great comic actor was an admirable though restrained version of the carriage and manner of the police.
As always happens, the invention grew wilder and wilder through the very tameness of the bourgeois conventions from which it had to create.
"Does one want to own soot?" he asked.
Thus, in England, if I wished to relieve a dean of his riches (which is not so easy as you might suppose), I wished to frame him, if I make myself clear, in the green lawns and grey towers of some cathedral town.
With an unaffected vain glory that had something disarming about it he held out the case before them all; it flew open at a touch and half blinded them.
It was just as if a crystal fountain had spurted in their eyes.
That Socialist would no more steal a diamond than a Pyramid.
The vamped dress of silver paper and paste, which had been too glaring in the footlights, looked more and more magical and silvery as it danced away under a brilliant moon.
But surely the get up would be too big a business."
"As I," supplemented Father Brown, with a broad grin, "was sitting just behind him-"
At abrupt intervals in the outrageous performance he would hurl himself in full costume at the piano and bang out some popular music equally absurd and appropriate.
We've got to go and look at that policeman!"
I know the woods look very free behind you, Flambeau; I know that in a flash you could melt into them like a monkey. But some day you will be an old grey monkey, Flambeau.
And I once made six children happy at Christmas when the conjuror didn't come, entirely with soot-applied externally."
You are leaving suspicion on an honest boy with a good deal against him already; you are separating him from the woman he loves and who loves him.
I did it in a good old middle class house near Putney, a house with a crescent of carriage drive, a house with a stable by the side of it, a house with the name on the two outer gates, a house with a monkey tree.
As an artist I had always attempted to provide crimes suitable to the special season or landscapes in which I found myself, choosing this or that terrace or garden for a catastrophe, as if for a statuary group.
"Oh, it's glorious, godfather," cried Ruby, almost dancing.
He sparkles from head to heel, as if clad in ten million moons; the real moon catches him at every movement and sets a new inch of him on fire.
"That's true," admitted Crook, nodding eagerly and walking about. "But I'm afraid I can't have my policeman's uniform?
It was quite possible."
Ripping up the envelope with evident astonishment he read it; his face clouded a little, and then cleared, and he turned to his brother in law and host.
"The truth is, those diamonds we all saw this afternoon seem to have vanished from my friend's tail coat pocket.
Dislike of the red tied youth, born of his predatory opinions and evident intimacy with the pretty godchild, led Fischer to say, in his most sarcastic, magisterial manner: "No doubt you have found something much lower than sitting on a top hat.
I can't see any harm in it, anyhow."
The kind man drinks and turns cruel; the frank man kills and lies about it.
They rushed on to the now curtained stage, breaking rudely past the columbine and clown (who seemed whispering quite contentedly), and Father Brown bent over the prostrate comic policeman.
On one side of the house stood the stable, on the other an alley or cloister of laurels led to the larger garden behind.
Blue Beard's more in my line, and him I like best when he turned into the pantaloon."
The harlequin, already clad in silver paper out of cigar boxes, was, with difficulty, prevented from smashing the old Victorian lustre chandeliers, that he might cover himself with resplendent crystals.
"This is a very painful matter, Father Brown," said Adams.
From this standpoint the drama may be said to have begun when the front doors of the house with the stable opened on the garden with the monkey tree, and a young girl came out with bread to feed the birds on the afternoon of Boxing Day.
The scene thus framed was so coloured and quaint, like a back scene in a play, that they forgot a moment the insignificant figure standing in the door.
"Quite natural, I should say," growled the man in the red tie.
He was a tall, sunburnt, and very silent man, who wore a red smoking cap like a fez, making him look like one of the English Sirdars or Pashas in Egypt. With him was his brother in law, lately come from Canada, a big and rather boisterous young gentleman farmer, with a yellow beard, by name james Blount.
"A harlequinade's the quickest thing we can do, for two reasons.
"I am only the clown who makes the old jokes."
The silver, sparkling figure above seems to lean forward in the laurels and, confident of escape, listens to the little figure below.
And now, by the way, you might give me back those diamonds."
"I want you to give them back, Flambeau, and I want you to give up this life.
Her brother james arrived just a week too late to see her."
Then he sat down nervously, still fumbling, and then stood up again.
I want a hot poker and a policeman made into sausages, and they give me princesses moralising by moonlight, Blue Birds, or something.
Porch and vestibule, indeed, were unduly large in proportion to the house, and formed, as it were, a big room with the front door at one end, and the bottom of the staircase at the other.
They're the three great African diamonds called 'The Flying Stars,' because they've been stolen so often.
"Oh, don't jump, mr Crook," she called out in some alarm; "it's much too high."
The priest had only watched for a few more minutes the absurd but not inelegant dance of the amateur harlequin over his splendidly unconscious foe.
There sat Colonel Adams, still unaffectedly dressed as a pantaloon, with the knobbed whalebone nodding above his brow, but with his poor old eyes sad enough to have sobered a Saturnalia.
"Oh, that's my godfather, Sir Leopold Fischer.
Nothing but a lot of snivelling fairy plays.
The little priest bounded like a rabbit shot.
In a nest of orange velvet lay like three eggs, three white and vivid diamonds that seemed to set the very air on fire all round them.
I know you not only forced the pantomime, but put it to a double use.
"I don't often know myself," replied mr Crook; "but then I am on the right side of the wall now."
But for the attractive face she might have been a small toddling bear.
He even essayed to put the paper donkey's tail to the coat tails of Sir Leopold Fischer.
The fellow acting the policeman-Florian.
Harry Burke started his free money movement sincerely enough; now he's sponging on a half starved sister for endless brandies and sodas.
"I only ask you to give me the assistance that any gentleman might give."
"If you want the inside of my head you can have it," said Brown rather wearily.
I really think my imitation of Dickens's style was dexterous and literary.
"Not a scrap," cried Blount, quite carried away.
At about this limit of mental anarchy Father Brown's view was obscured altogether; for the City magnate in front of him rose to his full height and thrust his hands savagely into all his pockets.
"He'll black his face, if that's what you mean," cried Blount, laughing. "I don't doubt he'd black everyone else's eyes.
The columbine looked charming in an outstanding skirt that strangely resembled the large lamp shade in the drawing room.
"Oh, I wish you'd do it to this company."
A large, neat chauffeur in green got out from the front, and a small, neat manservant in grey got out from the back, and between them they deposited Sir Leopold on the doorstep and began to unpack him, like some very carefully protected parcel.
"He was?" called Fischer inquiringly.
"Chloroform," he said as he rose; "I only guessed it just now."
Sir Leopold Fischer was leaning against the mantelpiece and heaving with all the importance of panic.
Then, after an innocent pause, which unconsciously betrayed some lack of enthusiasm, Ruby Adams added:
"Come on!
john Crook, journalist, had heard of that eminent City magnate; and it was not his fault if the City magnate had not heard of him; for in certain articles in The Clarion or The New Age Sir Leopold had been dealt with austerely.
"You've only talked like that since you became a horrid what's his name.
Father Brown dropped his book and stood staring with a look of blank mental ruin.
You used to boast of doing nothing mean, but you are doing something mean tonight.
It was almost impossible to believe that a living person could appear so limp.
As they went together through the laurels towards the front garden a motor horn sounded thrice, coming nearer and nearer, and a car of splendid speed, great elegance, and a pale green colour swept up to the front doors like a bird and stood throbbing.
"Which is turning out his pockets," said Father Brown, and proceeded to do so, displaying seven and sixpence, a return ticket, a small silver crucifix, a small breviary, and a stick of chocolate.
Very slowly a light began to creep in his grey eyes, and then he made the scarcely obvious answer.
Haven't killed a policeman lately."
But the first thing I find in that disused pocket is this: that men who mean to steal diamonds don't talk Socialism.
"Your downward steps have begun.
"She has lately," cried out old Fischer, "opened her father's house to a cut throat Socialist, who says openly he would steal anything from a richer man.
That venerable financier, however, still seemed struggling with portions of his well lined attire, and at length produced from a very interior tail coat pocket, a black oval case which he radiantly explained to be his Christmas present for his god daughter.
Now, you saw that if the dress were a harlequin's the appearance of a policeman would be quite in keeping.
"There, we are all fitted.
No doubt he will prove an acquisition."
"I've heard that gardeners use it.
An interlude ensued, during which the millionaire stared at the priest, and the priest at his breviary; then the pantaloon returned and said, with staccato gravity, "The policeman is still lying on the stage.
This is the end of it.
In fact he would certainly have done so, had not Ruby unearthed some old pantomime paste jewels she had worn at a fancy dress party as the Queen of Diamonds.
"What it's worth you can say afterwards.
Crook looked at him with an eye of interest and even respect.
"Whichever side you are on," said the young man named Crook.
My friend Florian 'phones he's bringing the police costume; he's changing on the way.
There were hollows and bowers at the extreme end of that leafy garden, in which the laurels and other immortal shrubs showed against sapphire sky and silver moon, even in that midwinter, warm colours as of the south.
Here she gave an exclamation of wonder, real or ritual, and looking up at the high garden wall above her, beheld it fantastically bestridden by a somewhat fantastic figure.
"A real policeman," said Father Brown, and ran away into the dark.
"Well," said the young man, "if you're born on the wrong side of the wall, I can't see that it's wrong to climb over it."
"I think," said Sir Leopold, with a supercilious smile, "that Ruby means a Socialist."
The individual riding the party wall like an aerial horse was a tall, angular young man, with dark hair sticking up like a hair brush, intelligent and even distinguished lineaments, but a sallow and almost alien complexion.
"Oh, splendid," cried Ruby.
"Yes, we can!" he cried.
We can act it in this very hall, the audience sitting on those broad stairs opposite, one row above another.
I like the jolly old pantomime where a man sits on his top hat."
And as you-"
The worthy officer started from Putney police station to find you, and walked into the queerest trap ever set in this world.
"He is harlequin to your columbine," said Crook.
With real though rude art, the harlequin danced slowly backwards out of the door into the garden, which was full of moonlight and stillness.
"I'm all for making a policeman into sausages," said john Crook.
You already had the clever notion of hiding the jewels in a blaze of false stage jewellery.
"Come on!" he cried in quite unusual excitement.
"He is very kind."
"You see, we know these people, more or less.
I didn't know, Miss Adams, that your Santa Claus was so modern as this."
I don't care; I'm not refined.
Perhaps it was a symbol.
He always comes on Boxing Day."
I can be harlequin, that only wants long legs and jumping about.
You could have done it by sleight of hand in a hundred other ways besides that pretence of putting a paper donkey's tail to Fischer's coat.
He was dusty looking and in a frayed coat, evidently a common messenger.
She had a pretty face, with brave brown eyes; but her figure was beyond conjecture, for she was so wrapped up in brown furs that it was hard to say which was hair and which was fur.
Thus squires should be swindled in long rooms panelled with oak; while Jews, on the other hand, should rather find themselves unexpectedly penniless among the lights and screens of the Cafe Riche.
"Of course, of course," replied the colonel carelessly-"My dear chap, any friend of yours.
"I'm sick at being such a nuisance, colonel," he said, with the cheery colonial conventions; "but would it upset you if an old acquaintance called on me here tonight on business?
A common thief would have been thankful for the warning and fled; but you are a poet.
You were going to steal the stones quietly; news came by an accomplice that you were already suspected, and a capable police officer was coming to rout you up that very night.
The millionaire held himself stiff with a sort of heathen solemnity.
"Not on mine, please," said Sir Leopold Fischer, with dignity.
Three flashing diamonds fell from the tree to the turf.
But in the rest you eclipsed yourself."
"Well, my last crime was a Christmas crime, a cheery, cosy, English middle class crime; a crime of Charles Dickens.
Father Brown, though he knew every detail done behind the scenes, and had even evoked applause by his transformation of a pillow into a pantomime baby, went round to the front and sat among the audience with all the solemn expectation of a child at his first matinee.
But he swings, flashing and successful, from the short tree in this garden to the tall, rambling tree in the other, and only stops there because a shade has slid under the smaller tree and has unmistakably called up to him.
"How can you say such things!" she remonstrated.
The boisterous Canadian, mr Blount, was lifting his loud voice in applause, and the astonished financier his (in some considerable deprecation), when a knock sounded at the double front doors.
"And which is the right side of the wall?" asked the young lady, smiling.
"I shouldn't blame 'em if they had taken 'em.
How even such a banquet of bosh was got ready in the time remained a riddle.
But he said nothing and grimly watched the unloading of the motor car, which was rather a long process.
Enough, you know the species.
Where is he exactly at this minute, I wonder."
He followed his summoner with increasing doubt, which was not dispelled by a solemn comicality in the scene of the study.
But you will do meaner things than that before you die."
"I'll put 'em back now, my dear," said Fischer, returning the case to the tails of his coat.
mr Blount started, and stopped in his shout of assent.
The colonel looked at him long, and then said, "Do you know, I should like to see the inside of your head more than the inside of your pockets.
The clown and pantaloon made themselves white with flour from the cook, and red with rouge from some other domestic, who remained (like all true Christian benefactors) anonymous.
And then-it struck!
They swirled, eddied and formed a barricade between us and the armored men.
There stood the host that had poured down the mountain road, horsemen, spearsmen, pikemen-a full thousand of them.
"Right." My own breathing was growing labored, "WE'LL hold them.
"Timed to a second!" cried Ventnor.
Of what powers?
They clustered close, their shields held before them.
I stumbled up the side; joined them.
"You're right, Walter," he grinned.
Silently we looked at each other, and silently we passed out of the courtyard.
"All right.
"The place is all right."
"They come!" he gasped.
I saw him stop, push her from him toward it.
I dropped over the side, walked cautiously down the road up which but an hour or so before we had struggled so desperately; paced farther and farther with an increasing confidence and a growing wonder.
As we sped after him I looked back.
He's got lots of ammunition on the pony.
Another hour, and their amethyst and purple mantles would drop upon them; snowfields and glaciers sparkle out in irised beauty; nightfall.
"To the fissure!" shouted Ventnor.
We'll follow.
I looked back.
"A chance!" gasped Ventnor.
I saw Drake stop, raise his rifle, empty it before him, and, holding ruth by the hand, race back toward us.
"It's all right," I shouted.
All too short was the check, but once more we held them-and again.
He reached out, touched me.
And to what myriads, it might be, of their kind?
"They come!"
Their arrows had ceased to fly.
"Very well," I gasped, irritated.
I saw a spear thrown.
Hope to God I judged the time right."
Behind us was a wolflike yelping.
Now Chiu Ming was with them.
Over us whined the bullets from the covering guns.
Fuses and dynamite.
It swept through them like a scythe through ripe grain.
"Chiu Ming's taking care of that," I gasped.
Again Ventnor's rifle cracked.
I pushed the two over the rim of the hollow.
The twilight was stealing upon the close clustered peaks.
We sprang up, sped on.
She looked at them, beckoned them.
I caught the glint of helmets and corselets.
While the way's open-"
ruth sprang to the pony, lifted from its back a rifle.
Hurry!"
They fell back, hesitated.
They huddled, wavered, broke for cover.
We turned off the ruined way; raced over the sward.
A good five hundred yards away were ruth and Drake, running straight to the green tunnel's mouth.
We threw ourselves down, facing them.
I turned aside, crept through the shattered portal and looked over the haunted hollow.
"We can't make it.
CHAPTER five THE SMITING THING
Quick on the screen of my mind flashed two pictures, side by side-the little four rayed print in the great dust of the crumbling ruin and its colossal twin on the breast of the poppied valley.
I heard the shouts of their captains; they rushed.
"Don't look back," grunted Ventnor.
Now ruth and Dick were a scant fifty yards from the crevice.
Drake can take care of ruth."
Close were we now to the mouth of the fissure.
"Quick, Mart!" I shouted up the shattered stairway.
"Dick," I cried, "rush ruth over to the tunnel mouth.
"Get Martin and Chiu Ming quick!
They were like rats scampering in panic over the bottom of a great green bowl.
Just a minute," he called.
This way!"
Within the black background of the fissure stood a shape, an apparition, a woman-beautiful, awesome, incredible!
"It's empty," I cried.
The woman stepped from the crevice.
The first pack had re-formed; had crossed the barricade the dynamite had made; was rushing upon us.
Those in the van were mounted, galloping two abreast upon sure footed mountain ponies.
I heard a sigh from ruth; wrested my gaze from the hollow; turned.
A rifle shot rang out above us; another and another.
Scattered prone among these were men and horses; others staggered, screaming.
Their short swords, lifted high, flickered.
"Afraid-for you!"
In the patterns was an appalling harmony-as though all the laws from those which guide the atom to those which direct the cosmos were there resolved into completeness-totalled.
What are They?"
Louder the roaring grew.
"Don't think that I accept them in their entirety. Part truth, part illusion-the groping mind dazzled with light of unfamiliar truths and making pictures from half light and half shadow to help it understand.
It was"--his tone was half whimsical, half apologetic-"it was that this jeweled world was ridden by some mathematical god, driving it through space, noting occasionally with amused tolerance the very bad arithmetic of another Deity the reverse of mathematical-a more or less haphazard Deity, the god, in fact, of us and the things we call living.
I looked up at the bulk that had carried us.
I heard a little wailing chorus without, fast dying into silence.
And they promised him other agonies that would make him pray long for death.
Now it was a tremendous rhythmic cannonading. The Thing halted.
Silently we streamed through the chasm, through the canyon and the tunnel-speaking no word, Drake's eyes fixed with bitter hatred upon Norhala, Ventnor brooding upon her always with that enigmatic sympathy.
There was an earthquake trembling; a maelstrom swirling in which we spun; a swift sinking.
"They tortured him," Ruth's voice was tense, bitter; she spoke in Persian-for Norhala's benefit I thought then, not guessing a deeper reason.
The Thing that carried us trembled-the sound died away.
It lurched forward-away from us.
And when she spoke the golden voice held more than returning echoes of the far away, faint chimings.
"Not yet can you go as I do-among the fires." She hesitated.
I shall leave these to guard you and obey you."
Now you and I shall dwell together in peace-sister.
She swept from the chamber-with never a glance for us three.
As though his words had been a cue, the sounds again burst forth-no longer muffled nor faint.
"I am afraid, little sister," she whispered for the third time.
On the ordered plains were traced the hieroglyphs of the faceted world.
But this I do know-that last vision was of a cataclysm whose beginnings we face now-this very instant."
But its rolling hills were leveled, its mountains were ground and shaped into cold and polished symbols-geometric, fashioned.
In the distance I saw a sapphire spark; knew it for Norhala's home.
They burst into it-into yellow, glowing sunlight.
Again the Thing trembled.
It's drum fire.
He pointed to the Thing that bore us.
The girl's eyes dwelt upon hers trustingly.
The drums of Destiny!"
"And me-me"--she raised little clenched hands-"me they stripped like a slave.
She caught the woman's hands, pressed close to her.
She had crushed them within the rock-even as she had promised.
The tower that upheld ruth and Norhala swayed, bent over the gap between us, touched the top on which we rode.
Shall it not be so?"
She tightened her grasp upon dreaming ruth; motioned us to go within. We passed, silently; behind us she came, followed by three of the great globes, by a pair of her tetrahedrons.
"Drums," whispered Ventnor.
"But Martin," I stammered, fighting against choking, intolerable terror, "there was something else.
Higher we rose; the three of us now upon the flat top of a tower upon whose counterpart fifty feet away and facing the homeward path, ruth and Norhala stood with white arms interlaced.
"Just an itinerant demiurge of supergeometry riding along through space on its perfectly summed up world; master of all celestial mechanics; its people independent of all that complex chemistry and labor for equilibrium by which we live; needing neither air nor water, heeding neither heat nor cold; fed with the magnetism of interstellar space and stopping now and then to banquet off the energy of some great sun"
The drums of Destiny!
"They tortured him.
Within the Thing under us a mighty pulse began to throb, accelerating rapidly to the rhythm of that clamorous roll.
"Whence did-They-come?" His voice was clear and calm, the eyes beneath the red brand clear and quiet, too.
"Rest here until I return.
Gently the two were plucked up; swiftly they were set beside us.
My reaction grew; the pity long withheld racing through me linked with a burning anger, a hatred for this woman who had been the directing soul of that catastrophe.
"Martin," I cried once more, a dreadful doubt upon me.
"Martin!
A geometric thought of the Great Cause, of God, if you will, made material.
Norhala-I am tired.
"I do not forget," he said.
A hope-a PROMISE, that they would NOT conquer."
Slowly we descended that mount of desolation; lingeringly, as though the brooding eyes of Norhala were not yet sated with destruction.
"They ARE drums.
And that picture passed."
Of human life, of green life, of life of any kind there was none.
"Martin-what do you mean?"
"THE DRUMS OF DESTINY"
It was a shadow that seemed to be born of our own world-some threatening spirit of earth hovering over them.
Or if there be those in the world from which you came that you would have slain, then you and I shall go forth with our companies and stamp them out-even as I did these."
It swelled to a crescendo; abruptly ceased.
I saw our Earth-I knew, Goodwin, indisputably, unmistakably that it was our earth.
Under me, the throbbing turned to an uneasy churning, a ferment.
Faintly I wondered again at Ruth's scantiness of garb, her more than half nudity; dwelt curiously upon the red brand across Ventnor's forehead.
"ruth!" cried Drake-and sprang toward them.
"We can do nothing, Goodwin-nothing. Whatever is to be steps forth now from the womb of Destiny."
"I saw vast caverns filled with the Things; working, growing, multiplying.
They were, in untold numbers-These!"
I saw Norhala draw herself up, sharply; stand listening and alert.
But from ruth--
The speeding shape halted, hesitated; it seemed about to return.
"There were three-visions, revelations-I know not what to call them. And though each seemed equally real, of two of them, only one, I think, can be true; and of the third-that may some time be true but surely is not yet."
The sapphire spark had grown to a glimmering azure marble.
"It had no mission; it wasn't at all out to do any reforming; it wasn't in the least concerned in rectifying any of the inaccuracies of the Other.
"No use, Drake," he said dreamily.
My gaze fell again upon the red brand.
"Drums?" muttered Drake.
Through the air came a louder drum roll-in it something ominous, something sinister.
"But still-SOME truth in them.
The drums of Doom!
And on all Earth, Goodwin, there was no green life, no city, no trace of man. On this Earth that had been ours were only-These.
And as he struggled the Thing we rode halted.
The sapphire marble became a sapphire ball, a great globe.
The very Polar ice was chiseled.
And a fantastic notion came to me-fantasy it was, of course, yet built I know around a nucleus of strange truth.
The Thing quieted; it began its steady, effortless striding through the crowding trees-but now with none of that speed with which it had come, spurred forward by Norhala's awakened hate.
Before my eyes they tortured my brother. Norhala-they were evil, all evil!
A new child to whom shall be given dominion-nay, to whom has been given dominion? Or is it-taps-for Them?"
It was the mark of-torture!
I felt a shock of repulsion.
A thrill of amazement passed through me; fantasy all this might be but-how, if so, had he gotten that last thought?
"Sleep till I return," she murmured.
Whence did They come?
"I remember," he replied, "but not clearly.
What do you mean?"
Beside a pile of the silken stuffs she halted.
Then slowly the Thing began to move; quietly it glided to the chasm it had blasted in the cliff wall.
"That passed," he went on, unnoticing.
We were lifted; between us and the woman and girl a cleft appeared; it widened into a rift.
"Wait," said Ventnor, and caught him by the arm as wrathfully, blindedly, he strove against the force that held him.
"Wait!" exclaimed Drake.
A new birth of Earth and the passing of man?
And then I saw that over every facet patterns were traced; gigantic symmetrical designs; mathematical hieroglyphs.
The drumming did not die; it grew louder, more vehement; defiant and deafening.
"The drums of destiny.
"And it was well done-sister.
They ranged themselves about ruth. Norhala kissed her upon both brown eyes.
Beat down upon the blue globe like hollow metal worlds, beaten and shrieking.
The blue bubble was close; now it curved below us.
"Sister!" she whispered.
From Norhala, of course, I looked for no perception of any of this.
Yet it is because I remember but a little of it that I say those drums may not be-taps-for us."
CHAPTER twenty seven.
"I am afraid!" I heard her whisper.
Now in the painful surges of awakening realization, of full human understanding of that inhuman annihilation, I turned to them for strength.
Norhala-you did well to slay them!"
From Norhala came a single cry-resonant, blaring like a wrathful, golden trumpet.
Nor except for the trembling cubes that made the platform on which we stood, did the shrunken Thing carrying us hold any unit of the Metal Monster except its spheres and tetrahedrons-at least within its visible bulk.
"I seemed to draw closer to it.
And suddenly I saw that mount as Earth-the city as Earth's cities-its gardens and groves as Earth's fields and forests-and the vanished people of Cherkis seemed to expand into all humanity.
"At least not all do I forget of what I saw during that time when I seemed an atom outside space-as I told you, or think I told you, speaking with unthinkable effort through lips that seemed eternities away from me, the atom, who strove to open them.
But where could batteries like those come from?"
"I suppose I ought to be grateful-although their intentions were not exactly-therapeutic-"
And at last it was twin sister of Norhala who looked upon her from the face of ruth!
We found it; then the precipices hid it.
"The patterned symbols constantly changed form.
"But in those caverns, under countless orbs of many colored lights"--again the thrill of amaze shook me-"they grew.
But in the eyes of ruth was none of this-sternly, coldly triumphant, indifferent to its piteousness as Norhala herself, she scanned the waste that less than an hour since had been a place of living beauty.
Or if it is your wish they shall go back to their world and I will guard them to its gates.
What is it they are heralding?
After all, those who had been destroyed so ruthlessly could not ALL have been wholly evil.
The drumming died as I listened-fearfully.
There came to us as though from immeasurable distances, a faint, sustained thrumming-like the beating of countless muffled drums.
His voice deepened.
Gently we were lifted down; were set before its portal.
The Thing split in two.
"Martin," I cried.
Into it streamed, over it clicked, score upon score of cubes, building it higher and higher.
No use-now."
Norhala's flaming hair crackled and streamed; about her body of milk and pearl-about Ruth's creamy skin-a radiant nimbus began to glow.
Man and tree, woman and flower, babe and bud, palace, temple and home-Norhala had stamped flat.
Only now and then it took note of the deplorable differences between the worlds it saw and its own impeccably ordered and tidy temple with its equally tidy servitors.
Came a shrill, keen wailing-louder than ever I had heard before.
Yet mother and blossoming maid, youth and oldster, all the pageant of humanity within the great walls were now but lines within the stone.
The serpent shape flashed toward us; it vanished beneath, merging into the waiting Thing.
There WAS something-a shadow upon them, a menace.
"I cannot remember; it eludes me.
Spheres and pyramids twinkled at us, guarding the silken pile whereon ruth lay asleep-like some enchanted princess.
What did they do to you?"
Steadily we gained upon the pyramid.
"Wait.
I had been right-built it was only of globe and pyramid; an inconceivably grotesque shape, it hung over us.
Motionless stood Norhala; and as motionless ruth.
"But you and I, little sister, will dwell together-in the vastnesses-in the peace.
Great gray eyes wide, filled with incredulous wonder, stunned disbelief, Norhala for an instant faltered.
"It is done," she said.
Crashed down upon us an abrupt crescendo of the distant drumming; peremptory, commanding.
Singular, isn't it?"
Really, it's an ill wind that blows no good!
His face fell.
mrs Merrick held up her hands in horror.
"Why, I never thought of it in that light."
"Doesn't the opera let out before midnight, the same as the theatres?" he asked.
"I will."
If so, take first train to New York, where I will look after your outfit.
Now, here I am with three nieces on my hands-"
He thought he could depend upon Beth.
And now, I'm off.
UNCLE john MAKES PLANS
"Not yet," he said.
"But the requirements of society-"
His telegram to Elizabeth was characteristic:
So she said, meekly:
"You may say two, sir," interrupted the Major.
CHAPTER two
A chaperone, indeed!"
"Do it to day," suggested the Major.
"Hold your tongue," said Uncle john.
They fairly danced.
This speech frightened the woman.
"I'll telegraph her, and find out," said Uncle john.
Answer immediately."
"Just what Patsy said.
"Quite well, thank you."
"Patsy can take care of herself."
"You!"
"I believe so; but there is the supper, afterward, you know."
"But you'll want a chaperone for them."
"Why so?"
Good morning, Martha."
"That's Europe, right enough," he said.
But he resolved not to submit without a struggle.
The Major's speech had a touch of the brogue when he became excited, but recovered when he calmed down.
Patsy and her father stared at one another with grave intentness. Then the Major drew out his handkerchief and mopped his brow.
But to take Patsy to Europe would be like pulling the Major's eye teeth or amputating his good right arm.
"You're dreaming again."
She can't go a step, and you know it.
The Major gave an involuntary start, and then turned to look at him curiously.
Tell us of them, sir, and we'll prove the Major utterly wrong."
"I'm going to Europe," he said.
"I won't go, daddy."
"I've only been thinking."
Uncle john emerged again.
It was not that he admired so much the "piece" the girl was playing as the girl who was playing the "piece." His pride in Patsy was unbounded.
"And I'm going to take Patsy along," he continued, with a mischievous grin.
Worse; far worse!
"Oh, yes you will.
"That's right, daddy," she said.
And why?
His affection for the little man increased mightily, but his respectful attitude promptly changed, and a chance to reprove or discomfit his absurdly rich brother in law was one of his most satisfactory diversions.
"Yes, daddy; but I won't, of course."
"Sir," said he, sternly-he always called his brother in law "sir" when he was in a sarcastic or reproachful mood-"I've had an idea for some time that you were plotting mischief.
When you crack it there's plenty of milk within-and in your case it's the milk of human kindness.
Major Doyle sat opposite, stiffly erect, with his admiring eyes full upon Patsy.
Uncle john gave a snort of contempt.
But then, Patsy could do anything, if she but tried.
The Major frowned.
"That's it!" said Uncle john.
"No, indeed; quite a mistake," replied the little man, seriously.
EDITH VAN DYNE.
The author is pleased to be able to present a sequel to "Aunt Jane's Nieces," the book which was received with so much favor last year.
It's positive cruelty to her, sir, to suggest such a thing!"
"Daddy!"
I will ask you to explain to us, sir, the brutal suggestion you have just advanced."
"You've been asleep," she said.
In a thick cushioned morris chair reclined the motionless form of Uncle john, a chubby little man in a gray suit, whose features were temporarily eclipsed by the newspaper that was spread carefully over them.
The Major smiled grimly.
"Your selfishness, my dear Major," said he, "is like the husk on a cocoanut.
The "we" is explained by stating that the Major held an important position in the great banking house-a position mr Merrick had secured for him some months previously.
CHAPTER one
But he was exactly as fascinating as ever, and they had a lovely spring cleaning in the little house on the tree tops.
The kiss that had been for no one else, peter took quite easily.
The bearded man who doesn't know any story to tell his children was once john.
This ought not to be written in ink but in a golden splash.
"What did his crow sound like?" Jane asked one evening.
"Of course; that is why I have come." He added a little sternly, "Have you forgotten that this is spring cleaning time?"
"No, I don't.
You need not be sorry for her.
Michael believed longer than the other boys, though they jeered at him; so he was with Wendy when peter came for her at the end of the first year.
"I don't think I see anything to night," says Wendy, with a feeling that if Nana were here she would object to further conversation.
Wendy was married in white with a pink sash.
"Certainly not.
He took mrs Darling's kiss with him.
Years rolled on again, and Wendy had a daughter.
"I thought all the fairies were dead," mrs Darling said.
"Yes! which did you like best of all?"
Because, if so, we can go away."
"You promised not to!"
"It doesn't matter," peter said.
"O peter," she said, shocked; but even when she explained he could not remember.
"O peter, you know it matters."
Of course peter promised; and then he flew away.
She sat up in bed, and was interested at once.
peter continued to cry, and soon his sobs woke Jane.
When Wendy returned diffidently she found peter sitting on the bed post crowing gloriously, while Jane in her nighty was flying round the room in solemn ecstasy.
"But, alas, he forgot all about me," Wendy said it with a smile.
"The dear old days when I could fly!"
"Yes, so do i What was the last thing peter ever said to you?"
"He does so need a mother," Jane said.
There were only two beds in the nursery now, Jane's and her nurse's; and there was no kennel, for Nana also had passed away.
But the years came and went without bringing the careless boy; and when they met again Wendy was a married woman, and peter was no more to her than a little dust in the box in which she had kept her toys.
You may see the twins and Nibs and Curly any day going to an office, each carrying a little bag and an umbrella.
"Oh dear, are you going away?"
"No, no," she cried.
"Why do they forget the way?"
"Keep back, lady, no one is going to catch me and make me a man."
She was one of the kind that likes to grow up.
When people grow up they forget the way."
Of course all the boys went to school; and most of them got into Class three, but Slightly was put first into Class four and then into Class five Class one is the top class.
They went up by the stair, because they thought this would make a better impression.
"No, she's not."
I am ever so much more than twenty.
"peter," said Wendy the comforter, "I should love you in a beard;" and mrs Darling stretched out her arms to him, but he repulsed her.
It is only the gay and innocent and heartless who can fly."
"The last thing he ever said to me was, 'Just always be waiting for me, and then some night you will hear me crowing.'"
In the end she grew up of her own free will a day quicker than other girls.
"Yes, I know."
"Yes, and the little girl in the bed is my baby."
I expect he was right, for fairies don't live long, but they are so little that a short time seems a good while to them.
"Yes, I know," Jane said, "I have been waiting for you."
"About me, peter?"
"I forget them after I kill them," he replied carelessly.
He gave a cry of pain; and when the tall beautiful creature stooped to lift him in her arms he drew back sharply.
Or perhaps Wendy admits she does see something.
Jane is now a common grown up, with a daughter called Margaret; and every spring cleaning time, except when he forgets, peter comes for Margaret and takes her to the Neverland, where she tells him stories about himself, to which he listens eagerly.
"What is it?" he cried, shrinking.
All the boys were grown up and done for by this time; so it is scarcely worth while saying anything more about them.
"It is just for spring cleaning time," Jane said, "he wants me always to do his spring cleaning."
"The foolish fellow," says Wendy, "tried to stick it on with soap, and when he could not he cried, and that woke me, and I sewed it on for him."
"Boy or girl?"
"Yes."
Want of practice, they called it; but what it really meant was that they no longer believed.
Then she turned up the light, and peter saw.
"Perhaps he is ill," Michael said.
"My darling, how can you know?"
Michael came close to her and whispered, with a shiver, "Perhaps there is no such person, Wendy!" and then Wendy would have cried if Michael had not been crying.
That was the time for stories.
Now surely he would understand; but not a bit of it.
That used to be Tootles.
"I sat up in bed and I said, 'Boy, why are you crying?'"
"I suppose so."
And then one night came the tragedy.
"Yes, that was it," says Jane, with a big breath.
"no"
"My name is peter Pan," he told her.
When she was old enough to ask them they were mostly about peter Pan.
"There are such a lot of them," he said.
"Sneaky tell tale!" Tink called out from somewhere round the corner.
She huddled by the fire not daring to move, helpless and guilty, a big woman.
Wendy rushed to the window.
"Then follow the leader," he cried gaily.
"With Tink in the house we built for Wendy.
"But he does so need a mother."
Funny.
"I do believe it is," says Jane.
"Why can't you fly now, mother?"
"No, you're not."
"Would you send me to school?" he inquired craftily.
Wendy would have preferred a more permanent arrangement; and it seemed to her that spring would be long in coming; but this promise sent peter away quite gay again.
"And then to an office?"
"no"
"I expect she is no more."
In time they could not even fly after their hats.
"But where are you going to live?"
He was exactly the same as ever, and Wendy saw at once that he still had all his first teeth.
Something inside her was crying "Woman, Woman, let go of me."
"I don't think he is a cypher," Tootles cried instantly.
"What is gay and innocent and heartless?
"You have missed a bit," interrupts Jane, who now knows the story better than her mother.
He was a little boy, and she was grown up.
She was as grown up as that.
"Girl."
"That is a long time ago, sweetheart," says Wendy.
"Yes."
"Yes."
mrs Darling came to the window, for at present she was keeping a sharp eye on Wendy.
For a little longer she tried for his sake not to have growing pains; and she felt she was untrue to him when she got a prize for general knowledge.
She died of old age, and at the end she had been rather difficult to get on with; being very firmly convinced that no one knew how to look after children except herself.
"Yes, you did."
I suppose it was because Wendy knew this that her last words to him were these rather plaintive ones:
You see that judge in a wig coming out at the iron door?
Wendy was sitting on the floor, very close to the fire, so as to see to darn, for there was no other light in the nursery; and while she sat darning she heard a crow.
"I couldn't help it.
"What is it?" he cried again.
Of course he did not strike.
But she seemed satisfied.
"I don't want to be a man.
"I shall have Tink."
"You won't forget me, peter, will you, before spring cleaning time comes?"
I grew up long ago."
"Rather not.
"Well, then, come with me to the little house."
Then he burst into tears, and the truth came out.
When she expressed a doubtful hope that Tinker Bell would be glad to see her he said, "Who is Tinker Bell?"
Wendy was a little startled.
"Tink can't go a twentieth part of the way round," she reminded him a little tartly.
"That is not Michael," she said quickly, lest a judgment should fall on her.
"I always cut their hair myself," said Wendy.
"I think I liked the home under the ground best of all."
Once a week Jane's nurse had her evening off; and then it was Wendy's part to put Jane to bed.
"Yes."
Wendy was grown up.
peter rose and bowed to her, and she bowed to him from the bed.
She loved to hear of peter, and Wendy told her all she could remember in the very nursery from which the famous flight had taken place.
"And yet the murder, if you choose to call it so, would be simply a measure of self preservation."
"The last attack I had," said he, "lasted but half an hour, and after it I was hungry, and got up without help; now I can move neither my right arm nor leg, and my head seems uncomfortable, which shows that there has been a suffusion of blood on the brain.
"Ah, yes," said Faria; "the penknife.
As soon as you feel able to swim we will go."
Is the world filled with tigers and crocodiles?"
"Then you feel quite sure that it was your misfortune he deplored?"
"Oh, your great work on the monarchy of Italy!"
Did you take anybody with you when you put into the port of Elba?"
They had learned to distinguish the almost imperceptible sound of his footsteps as he descended towards their dungeons, and happily, never failed of being prepared for his coming.
"No, I had no such idea; but, knowing that all was ready for flight, I thought you might have made your escape." The deep glow of indignation suffused the cheeks of Dantes.
Well, these twelve thousand livres are his civil list, and are as essential to him as the twelve millions of a king.
"Do you really think so?
"Let us talk of something else," said he.
And how did he treat you?"
"And will you engage not to do any harm to the sentry, except as a last resort?"
Pray tell me how."
"Yes; and remember that two legged tigers and crocodiles are more dangerous than the others."
Take care my cries are not heard, for if they are it is more than probable I should be removed to another part of the prison, and we be separated forever.
"At least a year."
"Was there any person whose interest it was to prevent your marriage with Mercedes?"
"We have lost a year to no purpose!" cried Dantes.
"What rank did he hold on board?"
"The thing is clear as day," said he; "and you must have had a very confiding nature, as well as a good heart, not to have suspected the origin of the whole affair."
I have torn up two of my shirts, and as many handkerchiefs as I was master of, to complete the precious pages.
I had a similar attack the year previous to my imprisonment.
"You did?
Dantes was occupied in arranging this piece of wood when he heard Faria, who had remained in Edmond's cell for the purpose of cutting a peg to secure their rope ladder, call to him in a tone indicative of great suffering.
Now, how could a sailor find room in his pocket for a portfolio large enough to contain an official letter?"
"Quick!
"Well," said he, "but you had another subject for your thoughts; did you not say so just now?"
Dantes examined the various articles shown to him with the same attention that he had bestowed on the curiosities and strange tools exhibited in the shops at Marseilles as the works of the savages in the South Seas from whence they had been brought by the different trading vessels.
I want to learn."
When he regained his dungeon, he threw himself on his bed, where the turnkey found him in the evening visit, sitting with fixed gaze and contracted features, dumb and motionless as a statue.
"So," answered the abbe.
Pray, was Danglars acquainted with Fernand?"
Everything is in readiness for our flight, and we can select any time we choose.
Starting up, he clasped his hands around his head as though to prevent his very brain from bursting, and exclaimed, "His father!
"Disguised."
Stay!--stay!--How strange that it should not have occurred to me before!
Every one, from the highest to the lowest degree, has his place on the social ladder, and is beset by stormy passions and conflicting interests, as in Descartes' theory of pressure and impulsion.
"You have not seen all yet," continued Faria, "for I did not think it wise to trust all my treasures in the same hiding place.
None can fly from a dungeon who cannot walk."
This proof of his guilt may be procured by his immediate arrest, as the letter will be found either about his person, at his father's residence, or in his cabin on board the Pharaon.'" The abbe shrugged his shoulders.
"Indeed they are not; but God has supplied man with the intelligence that enables him to overcome the limitations of natural conditions.
"Not if the choice had remained with me, for I had frequently observed inaccuracies in his accounts."
Did you really think me capable of that?"
"As for the ink," said Faria, "I told you how I managed to obtain that-and I only just make it from time to time, as I require it."
The abbe burst into a fit of laughter, while Dantes gazed on him in utter astonishment.
"I tore up several of my shirts, and ripped out the seams in the sheets of my bed, during my three years' imprisonment at Fenestrelle; and when I was removed to the Chateau d'If, I managed to bring the ravellings with me, so that I have been able to finish my work here."
"That while the writing of different persons done with the right hand varies, that performed with the left hand is invariably uniform."
"The ways of justice are frequently too dark and mysterious to be easily penetrated.
During these hours of profound meditation, which to him had seemed only minutes, he had formed a fearful resolution, and bound himself to its fulfilment by a solemn oath.
his father!"
Had a thunderbolt fallen at the feet of Dantes, or hell opened its yawning gulf before him, he could not have been more completely transfixed with horror than he was at the sound of these unexpected words.
As he entered the chamber of his friend, Dantes cast around one eager and searching glance in quest of the expected marvels, but nothing more than common met his view.
"And matches?"
Well, by means of these lines, which are in accordance with the double motion of the earth, and the ellipse it describes round the sun, I am enabled to ascertain the precise hour with more minuteness than if I possessed a watch; for that might be broken or deranged in its movements, while the sun and earth never vary in their appointed paths."
Who knows what may happen, or how long the attack may last?"
"Now, could any one have had any interest in preventing the accomplishment of these two things?
Chapter seventeen.
"That is in strict accordance with the Spanish character; an assassination they will unhesitatingly commit, but an act of cowardice, never."
"You had your portfolio with you, then?
Faria had now fully regained his consciousness, but he still lay helpless and exhausted.
"No; the letter."
"I do."
The reputation of being out of his mind, though harmlessly and even amusingly so, had procured for the abbe unusual privileges.
Memory makes the one, philosophy the other."
I had quarelled with him some time previously, and had even challenged him to fight me; but he refused."
"What? the accusation?"
"I worked at night also," replied Faria.
And you tell me this magistrate expressed great sympathy and commiseration for you?"
"I was reflecting, in the first place," replied Dantes, "upon the enormous degree of intelligence and ability you must have employed to reach the high perfection to which you have attained.
Dantes began to fear he had delayed too long ere he administered the remedy, and, thrusting his hands into his hair, continued gazing on the lifeless features of his friend.
"Yes."
"You are right; it was left on board."
"And what did you do with that letter?"
"Night!--why, for heaven's sake, are your eyes like cats', that you can see to work in the dark?"
Faria bent on him his penetrating eye: "I regret now," said he, "having helped you in your late inquiries, or having given you the information I did."
"Look at this ray of light which enters by my window," said the abbe, "and then observe the lines traced on the wall.
"At least," said the abbe, "I now see how wrong such an opinion would have been.
"You must teach me a small part of what you know," said Dantes, "if only to prevent your growing weary of me.
"De Villefort!"
"And that?"
He already knew Italian, and had also picked up a little of the Romaic dialect during voyages to the East; and by the aid of these two languages he easily comprehended the construction of all the others, so that at the end of six months he began to speak Spanish, English, and German.
Each word that fell from his companion's lips seemed fraught with the mysteries of science, as worthy of digging out as the gold and diamonds in the mines of Guzerat and Golconda, which he could just recollect having visited during a voyage made in his earliest youth.
"He gave me one great proof of his sympathy, at any rate."
"Perhaps!" exclaimed Dantes in grief stricken tones.
This malady admits but of one remedy; I will tell you what that is.
Indeed, I expected it, for it is a family inheritance; both my father and grandfather died of it in a third attack.
"No," replied Dantes.
"Put it into my portfolio."
"I separated the fat from the meat served to me, melted it, and so made oil-here is my lamp." So saying, the abbe exhibited a sort of torch very similar to those used in public illuminations.
"You have told me as yet but one of them-let me hear the other."
Go into my cell as quickly as you can; draw out one of the feet that support the bed; you will find it has been hollowed out for the purpose of containing a small phial you will see there half filled with a red looking fluid.
"With more of mildness than severity."
"Your life, my young friend, has not been of sufficient length to admit of your having passed through any very important events."
quick!" returned the abbe, "listen to what I have to say." Dantes looked in fear and wonder at the livid countenance of Faria, whose eyes, already dull and sunken, were surrounded by purple circles, while his lips were white as those of a corpse, and his very hair seemed to stand on end.
what has happened?"
"No; we were quite alone."
"Come," said the abbe, closing his hiding place, and pushing the bed back to its original situation, "let me hear your story."
"Pray ask me whatever questions you please; for, in good truth, you see more clearly into my life than I do myself."
"Are you sure?"
"I promise on my honor."
"I did."
The sick man was not yet able to speak, but he pointed with evident anxiety towards the door.
From this view of things, then, comes the axiom that if you visit to discover the author of any bad action, seek first to discover the person to whom the perpetration of that bad action could be in any way advantageous.
And your third attack (if, indeed, you should have another) will find you at liberty.
"Forgive me!" cried Edmond, blushing deeply.
"Still, you have thought of it?"
"In the first place, then, who examined you,--the king's attorney, his deputy, or a magistrate?"
"Oh yes, I read it over three times, and the words sank deeply into my memory."
"He was supercargo."
Now, it will scarcely require two years for me to communicate to you the stock of learning I possess."
"Wait a little.
"Alas," faltered out the abbe, "all is over with me.
"Well, then," said Dantes, "What shall you teach me first?
"Yes."
"With all my heart!
"Could your conversation have been overheard by any one?"
In strict accordance with the promise made to the abbe, Dantes spoke no more of escape.
I am seized with a terrible, perhaps mortal illness; I can feel that the paroxysm is fast approaching.
"Good again!
Dantes examined it with intense admiration, then looked around to see the instrument with which it had been shaped so correctly into form.
"The physician may be mistaken!" exclaimed Dantes.
Now, to apply it in your case,--to whom could your disappearance have been serviceable?"
What was your deputy called?"
"Repeat it to me."
Dantes listened, and plainly distinguished the approaching steps of the jailer.
"Nobody."
"Danglars, as well as others."
"I saw it done."
"I see," answered Dantes.
"Now can you conceive of any interest that your heroic deputy could possibly have had in the destruction of that letter?"
A double movement of the globe he inhabited, and of which he could feel nothing, appeared to him perfectly impossible.
So sudden and violent was the fit that the unfortunate prisoner was unable to complete the sentence; a violent convulsion shook his whole frame, his eyes started from their sockets, his mouth was drawn on one side, his cheeks became purple, he struggled, foamed, dashed himself about, and uttered the most dreadful cries, which, however, Dantes prevented from being heard by covering his head with the blanket.
Now I remember quite well, that on the table round which they were sitting were pens, ink, and paper. Oh, the heartless, treacherous scoundrels!" exclaimed Dantes, pressing his hand to his throbbing brows.
But let us first settle the question as to its being the interest of any one to hinder you from being captain of the Pharaon.
"I did!"
"The deputy."
"Gracious heavens!" exclaimed Dantes, "what is the matter?
"And as for your poor arm, what difference will that make?
"But cannot one learn philosophy?"
"Fernand."
Some of your words are to me quite empty of meaning.
I am fearfully exhausted and debilitated by this attack."
"Here are two flints and a piece of burnt linen."
"Oh, yes, yes!"
Perhaps the delight his studies afforded him left no room for such thoughts; perhaps the recollection that he had pledged his word (on which his sense of honor was keen) kept him from referring in any way to the possibilities of flight.
"That alters the case.
"Alas, my boy," said he, "human knowledge is confined within very narrow limits; and when I have taught you mathematics, physics, history, and the three or four modern languages with which I am acquainted, you will know as much as I do myself.
"Thanks," said the poor abbe, shivering as though his veins were filled with ice.
The Abbe's Chamber.
"By your misfortune?"
"This action is somewhat too sublime to be natural."
Dantes observed, however, that Faria, in spite of the relief his society afforded, daily grew sadder; one thought seemed incessantly to harass and distract his mind.
"Yes."
"It was this,--that while you had related to me all the particulars of your past life, you were perfectly unacquainted with mine."
"Stop a bit," said the abbe, taking up what he called his pen, and, after dipping it into the ink, he wrote on a piece of prepared linen, with his left hand, the first two or three words of the accusation. Dantes drew back, and gazed on the abbe with a sensation almost amounting to terror.
Should I ever get out of prison and find in all Italy a printer courageous enough to publish what I have composed, my literary reputation is forever secured."
Dantes followed; his features were no longer contracted, and now wore their usual expression, but there was that in his whole appearance that bespoke one who had come to a fixed and desperate resolve.
Danglars was joking in a friendly way, but Fernand looked pale and agitated."
Now let us return to your particular world.
They were in earnest conversation.
"Now as regards the second question."
Dantes took the hand of the abbe in his, and affectionately pressed it.
"But light?"
Dantes hastened to his dungeon, where he found him standing in the middle of the room, pale as death, his forehead streaming with perspiration, and his hands clinched tightly together.
"Danglars, as well as the rest?"
"I cannot believe such was the case.
"Two years!" exclaimed Dantes; "do you really believe I can acquire all these things in so short a time?"
I made it, as well as this larger knife, out of an old iron candlestick." The penknife was sharp and keen as a razor; as for the other knife, it would serve a double purpose, and with it one could cut and thrust.
"Old enough to be ambitions, but too young to be corrupt.
"Simply because that accusation had been written with the left hand; and I have noticed that"--
I can well believe that so learned a person as yourself would prefer absolute solitude to being tormented with the company of one as ignorant and uninformed as myself.
At the end of fifteen months the level was finished, and the excavation completed beneath the gallery, and the two workmen could distinctly hear the measured tread of the sentinel as he paced to and fro over their heads.
I wrote the word finis at the end of the sixty eighth strip about a week ago.
"Be of good cheer," replied Dantes; "your strength will return." And as he spoke he seated himself near the bed beside Faria, and took his hands.
"It might, for the cabin door was open-and-stay; now I recollect,--Danglars himself passed by just as Captain Leclere was giving me the packet for the grand marshal."
"Now, listen to me, and try to recall every circumstance attending your arrest.
"He did appear much disturbed when he read the letter that had brought me into this scrape.
The young man, in reply, took up the chisel, bent it into the form of a horseshoe, and then as readily straightened it.
"Now let me behold the curious pens with which you have written your work."
Dantes was at length roused from his revery by the voice of Faria, who, having also been visited by his jailer, had come to invite his fellow sufferer to share his supper.
The physician who prepared for me the remedy I have twice successfully taken, was no other than the celebrated Cabanis, and he predicted a similar end for me."
The abbe smiled, and, proceeding to the disused fireplace, raised, by the help of his chisel, a long stone, which had doubtless been the hearth, beneath which was a cavity of considerable depth, serving as a safe depository of the articles mentioned to Dantes.
"I accept.
It was therefore near seven o'clock; but Edmond's anxiety had put all thoughts of time out of his head.
The young man sprang to the entrance, darted through it, carefully drawing the stone over the opening, and hurried to his cell.
"And was it not discovered that your sheets were unhemmed?"
Almost before the key had turned in the lock, and before the departing steps of the jailer had died away in the long corridor he had to traverse, Dantes, whose restless anxiety concerning his friend left him no desire to touch the food brought him, hurried back to the abbe's chamber, and raising the stone by pressing his head against it, was soon beside the sick man's couch.
Behind the head of the bed, and concealed by a stone fitting in so closely as to defy all suspicion, was a hollow space, and in this space a ladder of cords between twenty five and thirty feet in length. Dantes closely and eagerly examined it; he found it firm, solid, and compact enough to bear any weight.
I could never agree to it."
He had scarcely done so before the door opened, and the jailer saw the prisoner seated as usual on the side of his bed.
"And why not?" asked the young man.
Lift it, and judge if I am mistaken." The young man raised the arm, which fell back by its own weight, perfectly inanimate and helpless.
You say you were on the point of being made captain of the Pharaon?"
"You think so?"
"And how long shall we be in accomplishing the necessary work?"
"About six or seven and twenty years of age, I should say."
"Then it was not till your return to the ship that you put the letter in the portfolio?"
Captivity has brought my mental faculties to a focus; and you are well aware that from the collision of clouds electricity is produced-from electricity, lightning, from lightning, illumination."
"Yes."
At length a slight color tinged the livid cheeks, consciousness returned to the dull, open eyeballs, a faint sigh issued from the lips, and the sufferer made a feeble effort to move.
"Upon my word," said Dantes, "you make me shudder.
Faria then drew forth from his hiding place three or four rolls of linen, laid one over the other, like folds of papyrus.
And what was this man's name?"
To whom was this letter addressed?"
"Who supplied you with the materials for making this wonderful work?"
"What?"
Come, let me show you my plan." The abbe then showed Dantes the sketch he had made for their escape.
That's my masterpiece.
"And you have discovered a means of regaining our freedom, have you not?" asked Dantes eagerly.
"He did."
"With what?"
"I feel quite sure of it now."
These rolls consisted of slips of cloth about four inches wide and eighteen long; they were all carefully numbered and closely covered with writing, so legible that Dantes could easily read it, as well as make out the sense-it being in Italian, a language he, as a Provencal, perfectly understood.
"Then it is Danglars."
But these forces increase as we go higher, so that we have a spiral which in defiance of reason rests upon the apex and not on the base.
On the other hand, the symptoms may be much more violent, and cause me to fall into fearful convulsions, foam at the mouth, and cry out loudly.
Ah, that would indeed be infamous."
"It has been long enough to inflict on me a great and undeserved misfortune.
I can take you on my shoulders, and swim for both of us."
"Without you?
"I know nothing.
The fit lasted two hours; then, more helpless than an infant, and colder and paler than marble, more crushed and broken than a reed trampled under foot, he fell back, doubled up in one last convulsion, and became as rigid as a corpse.
I was a very insignificant person."
"Well, we will wait,--a week, a month, two months, if need be,--and meanwhile your strength will return.
Days, even months, passed by unheeded in one rapid and instructive course.
"I once thought," continued Faria, "of removing these iron bars, and letting myself down from the window, which, as you see, is somewhat wider than yours, although I should have enlarged it still more preparatory to my flight; however, I discovered that I should merely have dropped into a sort of inner court, and I therefore renounced the project altogether as too full of risk and danger.
He seemed quite overcome by my misfortune."
"It was very boldly written, if disguised."
What would you not have accomplished if you had been free?"
In spite of the magnitude of the misfortune which thus suddenly frustrated his hopes, Dantes did not lose his presence of mind, but descended into the passage, dragging his unfortunate companion with him; then, half carrying, half supporting him, he managed to reach the abbe's chamber, when he immediately laid the sufferer on his bed.
We shall save you another time, as we have done this, only with a better chance of success, because we shall be able to command every requisite assistance."
"Tell me, I beseech you, what ails you?" cried Dantes, letting his chisel fall to the floor.
Since the first attack I experienced of this malady, I have continually reflected on it.
"Never mind; let us go on."
"What?"
"So that when you went on board the Pharaon, everybody could see that you held a letter in your hand?"
"Did you fancy yourself dying?"
"One thing still puzzles me," observed Dantes, "and that is how you managed to do all this by daylight?"
Edmond waited till life seemed extinct in the body of his friend, then, taking up the knife, he with difficulty forced open the closely fixed jaws, carefully administered the appointed number of drops, and anxiously awaited the result.
"I shall never swim again," replied Faria.
I was generally liked on board, and had the sailors possessed the right of selecting a captain themselves, I feel convinced their choice would have fallen on me.
"Yes; the grand marshal did."
Do you recollect the words in which the information against you was formulated?"
I am in a hurry to begin.
This last explanation was wholly lost upon Dantes, who had always imagined, from seeing the sun rise from behind the mountains and set in the Mediterranean, that it moved, and not the earth.
They went to breakfast directly; but Catherine could hardly eat anything.
Thank God!
He is a deceased man-defunct in understanding.
She must be an unprincipled one, or she could not have used your brother so.
"Such a sister in law, Henry, I should delight in," said Eleanor with a smile.
She opened it; it was from Oxford; and to this purpose:
"Though, God knows, with little inclination for writing, I think it my duty to tell you that everything is at an end between Miss Thorpe and me.
She has made me miserable forever!
Frederick too, who always wore his heart so proudly!
CHAPTER twenty five
They live at Putney."
Open, candid, artless, guileless, with affections strong but simple, forming no pretensions, and knowing no disguise."
Most bitterly did she cry.
But Isabella had promised and promised again; and when she promised a thing, she was so scrupulous in performing it!
"I have one favour to beg," said Catherine, shortly afterwards, in an agitated manner, "that, if your brother should be coming here, you will give me notice of it, that I may go away."
"Our brother!
I wish your visit at Northanger may be over before Captain Tilney makes his engagement known, or you will be uncomfortably circumstanced.
"You think it is all for ambition, then?
"I hope, so far as concerns my brother, you are misinformed.
Catherine had not read three lines before her sudden change of countenance, and short exclamations of sorrowing wonder, declared her to be receiving unpleasant news; and Henry, earnestly watching her through the whole letter, saw plainly that it ended no better than it began.
Miss Tilney, at Catherine's invitation, now read the letter likewise, and, having expressed also her concern and surprise, began to inquire into Miss Thorpe's connections and fortune.
Catherine was completely awakened. Henry's address, short as it had been, had more thoroughly opened her eyes to the extravagance of her late fancies than all their several disappointments had done.
I cannot forget that, when she first knew what my father would do for them, she seemed quite disappointed that it was not more.
I cannot understand even now what she would be at, for there could be no need of my being played off to make her secure of Tilney.
"You feel, as you always do, what is most to the credit of human nature. Such feelings ought to be investigated, that they may know themselves."
He was prevented, however, from even looking his surprise by his father's entrance.
After half an hour's free indulgence of grief and reflection, Catherine felt equal to encountering her friends; but whether she should make her distress known to them was another consideration.
Let me soon hear from you, dear Catherine; you are my only friend; your love I do build upon.
It was not only with herself that she was sunk-but with Henry.
"I am sorry," said Henry, closing the book he had just opened; "if I had suspected the letter of containing anything unwelcome, I should have given it with very different feelings."
After my father's consent had been so kindly given-but no more of this.
I am undeceived in time! But it is a heavy blow!
She hated herself more than she could express.
He gladly received the letter, and, having read it through, with close attention, returned it saying, "Well, if it is to be so, I can only say that I am sorry for it.
I think you must be deceived so far.
You feel, I suppose, that in losing Isabella, you lose half yourself: you feel a void in your heart which nothing else can occupy.
You feel all this?"
"A lawyer, I believe.
"No," said Catherine, after a few moments' reflection, "I do not-ought I? To say the truth, though I am hurt and grieved, that I cannot still love her, that I am never to hear from her, perhaps never to see her again, I do not feel so very, very much afflicted as one would have thought."
The liberty which her imagination had dared to take with the character of his father-could he ever forgive it?
Frederick will not be the first man who has chosen a wife with less sense than his family expected.
I do not believe Isabella has any fortune at all: but that will not signify in your family.
Tears filled her eyes, and even ran down her cheeks as she sat
"To have so kind hearted, so affectionate a sister," replied Henry warmly, "must be a comfort to him under any distress."
As soon as she dared leave the table she hurried away to her own room; but the housemaids were busy in it, and she was obliged to come down again. She turned into the drawing room for privacy, but Henry and Eleanor had likewise retreated thither, and were at that moment deep in consultation about her.
But now-in short, she made herself as miserable as possible for about half an hour, went down when the clock struck five, with a broken heart, and could scarcely give an intelligible answer to Eleanor's inquiry if she was well.
To expose a friend, such a friend as Isabella had been to her-and then their own brother so closely concerned in it! She believed she must waive the subject altogether.
"What was her father?"
I do not envy his situation, either as a lover or a son."
Catherine dared not doubt beyond her own country, and even of that, if hard pressed, would have yielded the northern and western extremities.
Perhaps, if particularly questioned, she might just give an idea-just distantly hint at it-but not more.
"I do not know what I was thinking of" (blushing again that she had blushed before); "james only means to give me good advice."
This made it so particularly strange!
"It contained something worse than anybody could suppose!
"Will you take the trouble of reading to us the passages which concern my brother?"
james had protested against writing to her till his return to Oxford; and mrs Allen had given her no hopes of a letter till she had got back to Fullerton.
His marrying Miss Thorpe is not probable.
Your father is so very liberal! He told me the other day that he only valued money as it allowed him to promote the happiness of his children." The brother and sister looked at each other.
"Your brother is certainly very much to be pitied at present; but we must not, in our concern for his sufferings, undervalue yours.
She drew back, trying to beg their pardon, but was, with gentle violence, forced to return; and the others withdrew, after Eleanor had affectionately expressed a wish of being of use or comfort to her.
I shall not enter into particulars-they would only pain you more.
I am very sorry for mr Morland-sorry that anyone you love should be unhappy; but my surprise would be greater at Frederick's marrying her than at any other part of the story."
He had-she thought he had, once or twice before this fatal morning, shown something like affection for her.
The letter was one moment in her hand, then in her lap, and then in her pocket; and she looked as if she knew not what she did.
You feel that you have no longer any friend to whom you can speak with unreserve, on whose regard you can place dependence, or whose counsel, in any difficulty, you could rely on.
Catherine took her place at the table, and, after a short silence, Eleanor said, "No bad news from Fullerton, I hope?
"That is the most unpromising circumstance, the strongest presumption against him.
Now she has really got the man she likes, she may be constant."
Nothing further was said for a few minutes; and then speaking through her tears, she added, "I do not think I shall ever wish for a letter again!"
The general, between his cocoa and his newspaper, had luckily no leisure for noticing her; but to the other two her distress was equally visible.
I will get the Bath paper, and look over the arrivals."
Her folly, which now seemed even criminal, was all exposed to him, and he must despise her forever.
Poor Thorpe is in town: I dread the sight of him; his honest heart would feel so much.
"No, read it yourself," cried Catherine, whose second thoughts were clearer.
"'tis only from james, however," as she looked at the direction.
"But," said Eleanor, after a short pause, "would it be to promote his happiness, to enable him to marry such a girl?
We parted at last by mutual consent-happy for me had we never met!
I never was so deceived in anyone's character in my life before."
"How quick you are!" cried Catherine: "you have guessed it, I declare! And yet, when we talked about it in Bath, you little thought of its ending so.
When I think of his past declarations, I give him up. Moreover, I have too good an opinion of Miss Thorpe's prudence to suppose that she would part with one gentleman before the other was secured.
"No, not very.
"But perhaps," observed Catherine, "though she has behaved so ill by our family, she may behave better by yours.
"It is very true, however; you shall read James's letter yourself. Stay-There is one part-" recollecting with a blush the last line.
She thanked him as heartily as if he had written it himself.
"Are they a wealthy family?"
The visions of romance were over.
"Dear Catherine,
For nine successive mornings, Catherine wondered over the repetition of a disappointment, which each morning became more severe: but, on the tenth, when she entered the breakfast room, her first object was a letter, held out by Henry's willing hand.
You would not, for instance, now go to a ball for the world.
My letter was from my brother at Oxford."
Eleanor's work was suspended while she gazed with increasing astonishment; but Henry began to suspect the truth, and something, in which Miss Thorpe's name was included, passed his lips.
Henry and Eleanor were by themselves in the breakfast room; and each, as she entered it, looked at her anxiously.
I left her and Bath yesterday, never to see either again.
Frederick!"
And how strange an infatuation on Frederick's side!
A man with such a broad and friendly outlook towards rain gauges will be sure to arrange something striking when the great moment arrives.
At any rate we have every hope that he will empty the pond as speedily as possible so that we may watch it fill again.
Say to such a one, "Come and play," and the invitation will be declined.
And they can be made more readily out of doors; for-supposing it is fine-the fresh air calls you to be doing something, and the sight of the newly marked tennis lawn fills you with thoughts of revenge for your accidental defeat the evening before.
How tired we get of being indoors on these days, even with the best of books, the pleasantest of companions, the easiest of billiard tables. Yet if our hostess were to see us marching out with an umbrella, how odd she would think us.
"A lot of rain in the night," says Brown.
This seems to me to give a much fairer indication of the rain that has fallen than do the official figures in the newspapers.
All this for those delightful summer days when there are fine intervals; but consider the advantages of the pond when the rain streams down in torrents from morning till night.
For "the pond" is just a small artificial affair of cement, entirely unpretentious.
But indoors it is so easy to drop into a sofa after breakfast, and, once there with all the papers, to be disinclined to leave it till lunch time.
And so the arrangements for the morning are made.
A man or woman as lazy as this must not be rushed.
By and by two or three others stroll up, and we all make measurements together.
It speaks much for my friend Aldenham's breadth of view that he understood this, and planned the pond accordingly.
Or croquet?
We wander down to the pond together, and perhaps find Brown and Miss Smith there.
The ribald call it the hippopotamus pond, tracing a resemblance between it and the bath of the hippopotamus at the Zoo, beneath the waters of which, if you particularly desire to point the hippopotamus out to somebody, he always lies hidden.
Or---?
The Pond
For there is ever before our minds that great moment in the future when the pond is at last full.
A most necessary thing in a country house is that there should be a recognized meeting place, where the people who have been writing a few letters after breakfast may, when they have finished, meet those who have no intention of writing any, and arrange plans with them for the morning.
But, anyhow, it is fairly fine now, and what about a little lawn tennis?
Some sort of fete will help to celebrate it, I have no doubt; with an open air play, tank drama, or what not.
And you know, it even reconciles us a little to these streaming days to reflect that it all goes to fill the pond.
Say, "Come and look at the pond," and the worst sluggard will not refuse such gentle exercise.
high.
Some think there will be merely a flood over the surrounding paths and the kitchen garden, but for myself I believe that we are promised something much bigger than that.
Aldenham may know, but we his guests do not.
I must say that he has been a little lucky in his choice of a year for inaugurating the pond.
Or golf?
It must be nearly full.
To the rest of us it is known simply as "the pond"--a designation which ignores the existence of several neighbouring ponds, the gifts of nature, and gives the whole credit to the handiwork of man.
Won't you come too?" And with any luck she comes.
Should I ever find myself in the dock, and one never knows, my answer to the question whether I had anything to say would be, "Well, my lord, if I might just recommend a book to the jury before leaving." mr Justice Darling would probably pretend that he had read it, but he wouldn't deceive me.
I had their promise before they left me, and waited confidently for their gratitude.
Nor, as I have already lamented, am I financially interested in its sale, an explanation which suspicious strangers require from me sometimes.
It is my opening remark, just as yours is something futile about the weather.
It was I who introduced that novelist to it six months before.
I think that I am probably safer with Tillier than with Butler, but I dare not risk it.
Claude Tillier-who has not heard of Claude Tillier?
Am I not right again?
Once on a time I discovered Samuel Butler; not the other two, but the one who wrote The Way of All Flesh, the second best novel in the English language.
When you sit down to it, don't be so ridiculous as to suppose that you are sitting in judgment on my taste, still less on the genius of Kenneth Grahame.
Thank you.
Ah, I was afraid so.
It is obvious, you persuade yourself, that the author was thinking of you when he wrote it.
It knew all about Samuel Butler.
For one cannot recommend a book to all the hundreds of people whom one has met in ten years without discovering whether it is well known or not.
You are merely sitting in judgment on yourself. ...
I shall not describe the book, for no description would help it. But I shall just say this; that it is what I call a Household Book.
The thought of your scorn at my previous ignorance of the world famous Tillier, your amused contempt because I have only just succeeded in borrowing the classic upon which you were brought up, this is too much for me. Let us say no more about it.
No doubt they also spread the good news in their turn, and it is just possible that it reached you in this way, but it was to me, none the less, that your thanks were due.
I LOVE his books!" and you will mention SO AND SO, and its equally famous sequel SUCH AND SUCH. But when I ask you if you have read MY book, you will profess surprise, and say that you have never heard of it.
Let us pass on to another book.
Not unnaturally the world remained unmoved.
The reason why I knew you had not read it is the reason why I call it "my" book.
But most of them were in your position-great admirers of the author and his two earlier famous books, but ignorant thereafter.
You have heard of him?
"Much better," I shall reply-and there, if these things were arranged properly, would be another ten per cent, in my pocket.
For instance, you may have noticed a couple of casual references to it, as if it were a classic known to all, in a famous novel published last year.
A Household Book
Am I not right?
Well, of course, you will order the book at once.
Well, the writer of my book is Kenneth Grahame.
If I don't get it in at the beginning, I squeeze it in at the end.
But, believe me, I shall be quite content with your gratitude.
Good, I thought so.
I say the second best, so that, if you remind me of Tom Jones or The Mayor of Casterbridge or any other that you fancy, I can say that, of course, that one is the best. Well, I discovered him, just as Voltaire discovered habakkuk, or your little boy discovered Shakespeare the other day, and I committed my discovery to the world in two glowing articles.
"Is it as good as SO AND SO and SUCH AND SUCH?" you will ask, hardly believing that this could be possible.
By a Household Book I mean a book which everybody in the household loves and quotes continually ever afterwards; a book which is read aloud to every new guest, and is regarded as the touchstone of his worth.
Last week I discovered a Frenchman, Claude Tillier, who wrote in the early part of last century a book called Mon Oncle Benjamin, which may be freely translated My Uncle Benjamin. (I read it in the translation.) Eager as I am to be lyrical about it, I shall refrain.
Usually I speak about it at my first meeting with a stranger.
It was published some twelve years ago, the last published book of a well-known writer.
But it is a book which makes you feel that, though everybody in the house loves it, it is only you who really appreciate it at its true value, and that the others are scarcely worthy of it.
You may be worthy; I do not know.
Indeed, I feel sometimes that it was I who wrote The Wind in the Willows, and recommended it to Kenneth Grahame ... but perhaps I am wrong here, for I have not the pleasure of his acquaintance.
For the last ten or twelve years I have been recommending it.
For I am going to speak of another discovery; of a book which should be a classic, but is not; of a book of which nobody has heard unless through me.
The books you have read are The Golden Age. and Dream Days.
But the book you have not read- my book-is The Wind in the Willows.
The shrimps alone, no; the paper alone, no; but the two to gether.
I imagine him assigning in his mind the right paper to each customer.
As soon as this gentleman approaches, he whips out the book, dusts it, and places it before the raconteur.
Our bookstall clerk doesn't wait to be asked.
Conceive the holy joy of the bookstall clerk as she and her bag of shrimps- yes, he could have told at once they were shrimps-approached and asked for The Morning Post.
He recognizes also at a glance the sort of silly ass who is always losing his indiarubber umbrella ring.
This man will ask for Golfing-wrong, he wants Cage Birds; that one over there wants The Motor-ah, well, The Auto Car, that's near enough.
Yes, and he would know who bought all his papers and books and pamphlets, and to know this is to know something about the people in the world.
Well, as I say, they see life.
What paper? You'll never guess; I shall have to tell you-The Morning Post. Now doesn't that give you the woman?
You cannot tell a man by the lobster he eats, but you can tell something about him by the literature he reads.
It contained some thousands of the best thoughts in all languages, such as have guided men along the path of truth since the beginning of the world, from "What ho, she bumps!" to "Ich dien," and more.
I have a good line in shortbreads, madam, if I can find the box, but no currants this evening, I beg you.
Unfortunately enough I left it in the train before I had time to master it.
We grocers only put the currants out for show, and so that we may run our fingers through them luxuriously when business is slack.
Yes, to be a grocer is to live well; but, after all, it is not to see life.
If he is wrong the first time, he never fails to recover with his second.
What a life!
We do not come into contact with the outside world much, save through the medium of potted lobster, and to sell a man potted lobster is not to have our fingers on his pulse.
The answer came to me just as I got into my train- Ask the man behind the bookstall.
"Bulger, sir.
A grocer, in as far as it is possible to a man who sells both scented soap and pilchards, would become narrow.
That is rather for one's old age. While one is young, and interested in persons rather than in things, there is only one profession to follow-the profession of bookstall clerk.
When she had finished, she emptied the ends out of the window, wiped her hands, and settled down comfortably to her paper.
He would know.
But he has other things than papers to sell.
Potted lobster does not define a man.
All customers are alike to the grocer, provided their money is good.
As soon as we left Liverpool Street she produced a bag of shrimps, grasped each individual in turn firmly by the head and tail, and ate him.
But I am wondering now what the bookstall clerk will make of me. A man who keeps on buying proverbs and Maxims.
I shall be at the bookstall next Monday and I shall have to buy another copy.
At the Bookstall
Soon he would begin to know the different types; he would learn to distinguish between the patrons of The Dancing Times and of The Vote, The Era and The Athenaeum.
One of our greatest soldiers."
The day can never be dull to the bookstall clerk.
I have often longed to be a grocer.
The thought occurred to me that an interesting article might be extracted from it, so I bought the book.
To be behind a bookstall is indeed to see life.
That will be all right; you shan't miss it.
For instance, I once occupied a carriage on an eastern line with, among others, a middle aged woman.
I thought of these things last Monday, and definitely renounced the idea of becoming a grocer; and as I wandered round the bookstall, thinking, I came across a little book, sixpence in cloth, a shilling in leather, called proverbs and Maxims.
"Yesterday?"
"To New York," I finished.
"Then telephone to the doctor.
The word must come from you.
"And did she?
Was she-"
But this has been in my pocket for six years.
At another time she might have resented these words, especially the last; but I had roused her curiosity, her panting eager curiosity, and she let them pass altogether unchallenged.
But the papers give no news, and all the attempts of the police end in nothing.
Her great eyes, haggard with suffering, rose to mine, then they fell on the bead which I had taken from my pocket.
"HE WILL NEVER FORGIVE"
"She has not sailed?"
"Wait!
You will go with me?"
I waited respectfully.
"No," I ventured to rejoin.
It is too soon.
"With pleasure, madam."
That I might-"
Give my orders.
I quarreled with the circumstances but felt forced to submit.
I have not finished weighing my life against the good opinion of him I live for." Then faintly-"mrs
They heard the shouting, and they understood the words.
And this was the last story he ever told:
That was a hard question.
Jesus strode down the room with the whip in his hand, and upset the tables where the money was.
"It is written in the Scriptures: God's house shall be a house of prayer.
"Very well," Jesus retorted, "neither am I going to tell you what right I have to do these things!"
You are like graves with rotting bodies in them, which people walk over without knowing what is underneath. Nobody knows how bad you are.
The next day Jesus returned to Jerusalem and again went to the Temple. This time he carried a whip.
So all they said was, "We don't know-we can't tell."
They were the pilgrims who had come for the Passover feast.
Then he drove the sheep and the cattle out after the men.
For whenever Jesus came to Jerusalem, great crowds gathered around him. None of the priests dared to lay a finger on him in the open.
I was a stranger, and you took me into your homes.
The crowds saw the procession coming.
The disciples went to the village, as Jesus told them, and there they found the donkey.
But something had to be done, the priests and the rulers said.
The craftiest men in Jerusalem could not think what to do.
"Thirty pieces of silver you shall have," they cried, "if you give us Jesus!"
When they had almost reached the city, the disciples began to shout.
"Send soldiers when I tell you," Judas said.
It was a royal welcome.
I was sick, and in prison, and you came to visit me!'
But he said a great deal to make his enemies angry.
And now it is too late!'"
Once they came and asked, "Should we pay taxes to the romans?"
"Why," they answered, "that is a picture of Caesar, the emperor of Rome."
Who told you that you could act like this?"
Jesus said, "Whose picture is that?"
They were afraid of the romans too.
This was his Father's house and his house.
They hated him, and they were afraid of him.
It seemed to the people as if the Messiah might have come at last.
"Watch out for the scribes and the Pharisees," he told the people, "and don't be like them.
"The other disciples will all be there, and the soldiers won't know which man to take.
"All right," said Jesus, "do whatever your duty is to Caesar and his government.
"We shall have to do away with Jesus quietly," someone said.
They saw the donkey, and they remembered what the Scriptures said.
They were at their wits' end to know how to get rid of Jesus.
A great cry of "Hosanna!" went ringing down the street.
"What will you give me," Judas said, "if I turn Jesus over to you?"
But if he said they should not pay the taxes-well, they could count on the Roman governor to settle with Jesus then.
Jesus got on the donkey, and started for Jerusalem.
They untied it, and led it away.
"Look, the whole world has gone after him!"
But now they could tell the whole world, for Jesus wanted everyone to know.
twelve.
"Then I will say to others: 'Go away.
But they did not know how it was to be done.
It was one of Jesus' twelve disciples, who had come to see the priests and rulers.
But I will go up to Jesus and kiss him.
Everyone seemed to be saying it.
You will have to decide about that for yourselves.
The priests and the rulers wanted to kill Jesus.
"Show me a penny," Jesus replied.
For I was hungry, and thirsty, and naked, and sick, and in prison, and you did nothing at all for me.'
"What is there we can do?" they said to one another.
I was thirsty, and you gave me something to drink.
They shouted the words of a psalm: "'Hosanna to the son of David: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord; Hosanna in the highest.'"
"Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord." Some cut branches from the trees, and waved them before the Messiah.
The city was crowded with travelers from all over Palestine, and from foreign countries too.
"And I will say: 'Many poor people needed your help, and you did not help them.
Some of them put their clothes on the donkey's back, for a king must ride in comfort. Others spread their clothes out on the street, for a king should ride in state.
"What right have you to do these things?
The disciples walked ahead.
Jesus called his disciples to him, and said:
Several times his enemies tried to trick him into saying something that would turn the people against him, but Jesus always had an answer which silenced them.
How can you escape the punishment which God is bringing upon you?"
The week was going by.
This was too much for the priests of the temple, and all the important men who ruled Jerusalem.
The king for whom the Jews had been waiting had come at last to reign.
The man I kiss will be the one you want."
Turning to the Pharisees themselves, he went on:
When you failed them, you failed me.
In the Court of the Gentiles the money was clinking as it had done when Jesus was a boy.
Some of the crowds began to shout with the disciples.
When the men jumped up from their chairs, he drove them out of the Temple.
"Woe to you Pharisees!
He left the Pharisees and went into the Temple, where people were making their gifts to God.
You snakes!
And also do your duty to God!"
But you have made it into a den of thieves and robbers!" he cried.
So for thirty pieces of silver Judas agreed to show them where Jesus was, at some time when there was no one around but the twelve disciples.
The crowds would never let them.
They shouted, "Hosanna!"
There was a knock at the door.
Every day that week, Jesus came and taught in the Temple.
With many words and stories he taught the people who thronged around him on the days of that week.
"I tell you, this poor widow has given more than all these rich people are giving.
That was all they talked about.
Others were selling doves for sacrifice.
"Then these people will be surprised, and say, 'Lord when did we ever do anything for you?'
I had nothing to wear, and you gave me clothes.
These were his Father's people and his people.
Take the reward he has planned for you to have.
The next day some of the rulers came to Jesus and said:
In the evening, Jesus and the disciples returned to Bethany to sleep.
His name?
When john the Baptist used to preach to you and baptize people, who gave him the right to do that?"
"Who is this?" they asked.
The excitement spread through the city.
And Jesus still had not said anything that he could be punished for.
They were glad that they did not have to be quiet any longer.
"These people will also be surprised.
"I'll answer your question if you answer a question of mine.
"Yes," the others agreed, "we can't wait till the day of the Passover. If we should do anything to him on that day, there would be a riot."
There was a man's picture stamped on one side of it.
"What time was he through dinner, do you know?"
He shook his head.
High overhead we heard the droning of an aeroplane and we both stopped to gaze at it.
What's that got to do with it?"
mr Woods said, in view of the fact that the murderer hadn't been found, almost any one might be accused.
Suddenly the coroner clapped me on the shoulder.
"Oh, his alibi is good of course, because he was around the club all that evening.
These thoughts held my attention all the way out.
"Are you sure of that, George?"
Look over there!
"Nothing that seemed to refer to the accident.
I shook hands with him and left.
The darky scratched his head.
When we reached the tree, the coroner examined the ground around it carefully.
"Yes, but how are we going to prove it?" I asked.
The coroner thought a moment, then turned to me.
"What time was it when he came back?" I asked.
"When was the first time you did see him, Jackson?"
"What do you mean, George?"
"The clever devil!
Well, if she could get along without me, I could get along without her. I'm the easiest going person in the world, but when it comes to allowing the girl you are practically engaged to, to make a fool of herself over another man, I won't stand for it.
"He was a military pilot in the French army and is the head of an aeroplane firm, but I don't think he has an aeroplane here."
They slanted down but not sidewise.
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
I remember mr Farnsworth and mr Brown. There were probably some others.
The boy was trembling.
If the man who fired those shots used this tree, I thought we might find an empty cartridge or two. There ought to be at least some broken twigs or something to show that he was up there, but I find nothing at all."
Finally he broke into a wail.
He could have come down within fifty feet of the ground and followed that car, pumping bullets into it all the way.
"Only one or two of the gentlemen, sir.
"What else did she say?"
For a moment I saw red as I pictured Jim, helpless before approaching death.
It is one of the simplest tricks of a pilot's repertoire.
Has Woods an aeroplane?"
There was mr Farnsworth and mr Brown and I think mr Woods."
"Do you remember waiting on mr Frank Woods two weeks ago last Thursday night?" I asked.
"There's our tree."
There were a few gentlemen in here and they were talking of mr Felderson's death.
"Well, no, sir, not exactly.
We jumped into my car and drove rapidly to the club.
I went into the house by the back way to avoid meeting people and asked for Jackson.
The reason I think mr Woods was here was because he called my attention to the fact a few nights after the murder.
The bullets fired from above and behind. The number of bullets fired.
"no
"What did you expect to find here?" I asked.
She begged forgiveness for some fancied wrong, and repeated that a certain man was not guilty of dishonesty.
"I didn't know what we might find.
That she should risk her reputation to run after that man was inexplicable, but it was just like a woman.
"Everything!
As he saw it the coroner gave a grunt of satisfaction.
He had absolutely everything in his favor."
All the rest was apparently delirium.
"I've got it!"
"I don't know.
Grogan, the old bartender was there alone.
It's going to hit us,' she called out, and I would be willing to swear it had something to do with the murder."
"That's up to us now.
We stopped the car and scrambled through the thorny bushes that lined the road.
But her first weird cry had to do with the murder, I'm sure."
I'm sorry, for when I saw this tree, I thought we'd struck the right track."
"Then mr Woods wasn't here all through dinner, Jackson?"
Those bullet holes in the back of the car were fired from above and behind the machine.
Mary's unreasonableness, her stupid obstinacy, when she knew she was wrong and I was right, her willingness to break our friendship at the first opportunity, gave me little room to think of anything else.
An aeroplane has such speed that it was easy for Woods to fashion an ingenious alibi to account for every minute of his time on the night of the murder, but there must be some holes in it; there always is in a manufactured alibi.
"There's one thing I can't make out," I stated, "and that is the strange cry of my sister in her delirium.
Who owns an aeroplane around here?"
THE ANSWER
It was done a hundred, yes, a thousand times in the war.
The coroner and I drove out to the bridge that afternoon and I must admit I was mighty poor company.
"He could get one easy enough."
It has been true from Pandora to Pankhurst.
'Look out, Jim!
"Still, the fact that the tree is where it is, makes the theory plausible."
"Are you sure mr Woods was in here?"
Besides, what could it matter?
Besides, she argued to herself that she was repairing an abuse of power committed by her august father. She was reinstating a member of the peerage.
How bitter the humiliation!
This is what he did not see.
The lost child was found. There was a Lord Clancharlie; David Dirry Moir was nobody.
The Lord Chancellor proved the fact that the heir to a peerage had been carried off, mutilated, and then restored.
What words could express his devilish delight!
First, there are ancient monarchical maxims.
Hence an access of savage animosity lurked in his mind. He had reached the paroxysm which is called discouragement.
He was clever in the art of suggestion, which consists in making in the minds of others a little incision into which you put an idea of your own.
All preliminaries being complete, he had watched till all the necessary legal formalities had been accomplished.
Mysterious efforts!
Every deed done is a draft drawn on the great invisible paymaster.
He was the artificer.
Hence the king may order the suppression of a limb like the suppression of a state, etc
The reinstatement of Lord Fermain Clancharlie was, moreover, a very simple affair, the heir being legitimate, and in the direct line.
The House of Lords could not but be grateful.
There was no point to submit to the House, and the Queen, assisted by the Lord Chancellor, had power to recognize and admit the new peer.
All at once to a certain goal-Chance, immense and universal, loves to bring such coincidences about-the flask of Hardquanonne came, driven from wave to wave, into Barkilphedro's hands.
Lord William Cowper is celebrated for having, with reference to the affair of Talbot Yelverton, Viscount Longueville, propounded this opinion: That in the English constitution the restoration of a peer is more important than the restoration of a king.
Neither was Hardquanonne dead.
Here was the destruction of the edifice which made the existence of Josiana.
But how degrading to be thus baffled!
The waves transmitted from one to another the floating bottle.
Meanwhile he was happy.
Illustrious and haughty, a player; beautiful, a monster.
The confrontation of Hardquanonne with Gwynplaine had taken place. Barkilphedro had been present.
A hideous husband for her sister, and a fine step for Lord David.
He was all the more furious, because despairing.
james the second. was an easy minded tiger; like Philip the second., his crimes lay light upon his conscience.
The change he was about to work would not have seemed less desirable had it been detrimental to him.
All this had occurred owing to the circumstance of a soldier having found a bottle on the beach.
He had noted it.
Destiny is subject to such grim caprices.
Certain princes, too near to the throne, have been conveniently stifled between mattresses, the cause of death being given out as apoplexy.
To reinstate Gwynplaine was to crush Josiana. Barkilphedro had succeeded, and it was for this that for so many years the waves, the surge, the squalls had buffeted, shaken, thrown, pushed, tormented, and respected this bubble of glass, which bore within it so many commingled fates.
The secret had not oozed out, silence being an element of law.
The flask found at Calshor had awakened his interest in the highest degree.
If the heir be found, let the coronet be given back to him.
The facts were found to be correct.
Fifteen years is nothing.
Ocean had made itself father and mother to an orphan, had sent the hurricane against his executioners, had wrecked the vessel which had repulsed the child, had swallowed up the clasped hands of the storm beaten sailors, refusing their supplications and accepting only their repentance; the tempest received a deposit from the hands of death.
It happened that at six leagues from the anchorage of the naval station commanded by Lord David, a captain called Halyburton broke through the French fleet.
The appearance of the mountebank, in his low estate, would be a good ingredient in the combination; later on it would season it.
We will relate the facts.
But he was wrong.
All this was done with the most rigid secrecy, with what is called royal promptitude, and with that mole like silence recommended and practised by Bacon, and later on made law by Blackstone, for affairs connected with the Chancellorship and the state, and in matters termed parliamentary.
The most hateful combinations are surpassed by the infernal munificence of the unforeseen.
The work on which he was engaged could only be expressed in these strange words-the construction of a thunderbolt.
She was proudly and royally disdainful.
In all facts there are wheels within wheels.
A sudden earthquake.
He, too, would not have minded leaving behind him those archives of Simancas, with all his misdeeds dated, classified, labelled, and put in order, each in its compartment, like poisons in the cabinet of a chemist.
In what manner Gwynplaine was deformed, and by what kind of ugliness, Barkilphedro had not communicated to the queen, and Anne had not deigned to inquire.
Her Majesty was going to enjoy a comedy.
His vengeance-for he called it his vengeance-had been softly brought to him by the waves.
Often when it would be to a man's greatest advantage to escape from the hands of the police or the records of history, he would seem to regret the escape so great is the love of notoriety.
He felt that he was the object and the instrument.
Barkilphedro managed everything.
Both were equally ferocious.
Now to stifle is worse than to mutilate.
To set the sign manual to crimes is right royal.
THE WAIF KNOWS ITS OWN COURSE.
In the mind of the Lord Chancellor, however, the recognition of Gwynplaine by Hardquanonne was indubitable.
He was a monster by the grace of God.
One day one of the four gunners composing the garrison of Castle Calshor picked up on the sand at low water a flask covered with wicker, which had been cast up by the tide.
Insects exist which are so savagely disinterested that they sting, knowing that to sting is to die. Barkilphedro was like such vermin.
William, Baron Cowper, Chancellor of England, whom the queen believed in because he was short sighted like herself, or even more so, had committed to writing a memorandum commencing thus: "Two birds were subject to Solomon-a lapwing, the hudbud, who could speak all languages; and an eagle, the simourganka, who covered with the shadow of his wings a caravan of twenty thousand men.
The Lord Chancellor was William Cowper.
The truth was that the joy of Barkilphedro had become enthusiastic.
As to Barkilphedro, he was joyful-a circumstance which gave a lugubrious expression to his face.
What he most desired was something unspeakably abrupt.
Peerage, riches, power, rank-all these things left Lord David and entered Gwynplaine.
He fancied that it had been effected for Barkilphedro, and that he was well worth the trouble. Thus it is ever with Satan.
Barkilphedro was struck by a flash of Titanic pride.
Mischief and kindness combined.
It was easy to deceive Josiana, entrenched as she was behind a rampart of pride.
Oh! you believe that effrontery is confined to abandoned women?
And on this point the chancellor, as constitutional keeper of the royal conscience, based the royal decision.
The eyes of dukes of the blood royal have been plucked out for the good of the kingdom.
A man commits a bad action, and places his mark upon it.
The same day a post chaise belonging to the royal household was suddenly sent by her Majesty to fetch Lady Josiana from London to Windsor, where the queen was at the time residing.
He had, we know, a gay and open countenance, differing so far from Philip.
"If a drowned man is cast up by the water, and is not dead, it is an act of God readjusting one of the king.
The queen was then at Windsor-a circumstance which placed a certain distance between the intrigues of the court and the public.
Secondly, there is a royal right of mutilation.
To gnaw one's chain-how tragic and appropriate the expression!
If there be one thing in the world which can be more hideous than another, 'tis joy.
Advancing by such favour, and assuming grave and modest airs, Barkilphedro might become a somebody.
Josiana was about to be dashed against Barkilphedro, to his intense villainous ecstasy.
Gwynplaine!
In cases of doubtful descent, and of peerages in abeyance claimed by collaterals, the House of Lords must be consulted.
His ugliness would please the queen in the same proportion as it displeased Josiana.
Thus was it done for Lord Alla, King of Northumberland, who was also a mountebank.
It is legal.
All the castles, parks, forests, town houses, palaces, domains, Josiana included, belonged to Gwynplaine.
The fragments of the event which was to satisfy his hate were spread out within his reach.
james the second. was of this latter variety.
It is very sweet to do a just action which is disagreeable to those whom we do not like.
Whatever might be the face of the new lord, a face cannot be urged in objection to a right.
She was self isolated.
Barkilphedro found that all his dreams had been nonsense; reality were better.
What trouble the abyss must have taken! Thus that which Gernardus had flung into darkness, darkness had handed back to Barkilphedro.
There is the tyrant who conceals himself, like Tiberius; and the tyrant who displays himself, like Philip the second.
They had only to put their hands on him.
She was acting like a great queen; she was protecting innocence according to the will of God that Providence in its holy and impenetrable ways, etc, etc
Who could have hoped for this?
He had always been destined for the church.
Knowing how to wait, he had fairly won his reward.
He had read the sign nailed up against the Tadcaster Inn as one reads a play bill that attracts a crowd.
Thus, under another form, Providence," etc
Oh, what a great success! and what a deal of useful work had chance accomplished for him!
Only such persons as were absolutely necessary to the plan were in the secret of what was taking place.
When reality likes, it works masterpieces.
To keep hate thenceforth in a case, like a dagger in a museum!
He had not lain in ambush in vain.
He was transferred from Chatham to London.
Philip was sullen, james jovial.
Of a peer of England.
This flask, covered with mould, was corked by a tarred bung.
The King of Tunis tore out the eyes of his father, Muley Assem, and his ambassadors have not been the less favourably received by the emperor.
The Earl of Pembroke, President of the Council, proposed that this Captain Halyburton should be made vice admiral.
Josiana entered her house feeling very spiteful, supped in a bad humour, had the spleen, dismissed every one except her page, then dismissed him, and went to bed while it was yet daylight.
Let us clear the character of chance.
Royalty on this occasion had shown itself a good and scrupulous guardian of the privileges of the peerage.
Therefore he had nothing to dissimulate nor to extenuate, and his assassinations were by divine right.
He did not blame james the second., who was, after all, the queen's father.
That amphora had been floating fifteen hundred years.
Thomas Howard, Duke of Norfolk, a Catholic peer, who is hereditary Earl Marshal of England, had sent word by his deputy Earl Marshal, Henry Howard, Earl Bindon, that he would agree with the Lord Chancellor.
Here was a case of the restoration of a peer.
Besides, was it not all due to him, who had waited so long on duty at the gate of chance?
The queen immediately took the matter into consideration.
The message sent to God had reached the devil. Space had committed an abuse of confidence, and a lurking sarcasm which mingles with events had so arranged that it had complicated the loyal triumph of the lost child's becoming Lord Clancharlie with a venomous victory: in doing a good action, it had mischievously placed justice at the service of iniquity.
Search was made.
At heart we may admit that he was very much astonished.
It was for this that there had been a cordial co-operation between the winds, the tides, and the tempests-a vast agitation of all prodigies for the pleasure of a scoundrel; the infinite co operating with an earthworm!
Barkilphedro, having uncorked and emptied the bottle, carried it to the queen.
At Vienna there was "a counsellor of the ear"--an aulic dignitary.
Queen Anne, in one particular unfeminine, seeing that she could keep a secret, demanded a confidential report of so grave a matter from the Lord Chancellor-one of the kind specified as "report to the royal ear." Reports of this kind have been common in all monarchies.
But one law does not destroy another.
Observe the design!
He seemed but little surprised, for astonishment is the attribute of a little mind.
He did not believe that it had all been done for Gwynplaine.
Hardquanonne was still in prison at Chatham.
He said to himself that it had all been done to fulfil his intentions.
Barkilphedro was perhaps just on the point of renouncing not his desire to do evil to Josiana, but his hope of doing it; not the rage, but the effort.
Why should james the second., whose credit required the concealment of such acts, have allowed that to be written which endangered their success?
"I am the Queen of Sweden, in the palace of the King of France."
She was obliged to set out at once, and to leave her residence in London, Hunkerville House, for her residence at Windsor, Corleone Lodge.
The affair, thanks to him, was kept so close, the secret was so hermetically sealed, that neither Josiana nor Lord David caught sight of the fearful abyss which was being dug under them.
To save the victim of james the second. was to give a prey to Barkilphedro.
Holding himself aloof, and without appearing to mix himself up in the matter, it was he who arranged that Josiana should go to the Green Box and see Gwynplaine.
To fill up the measure of crime by effrontery, to denounce himself, to cling to his misdeeds, is the insolent bravado of the criminal.
The Lord Chancellor, its oracle, had approved.
He had nothing to do but to pick them up and fit them together-a repair which it was an amusement to execute.
They obtained from the local archives at Vevey, at Lausanne, the certificate of Lord Linnaeus's marriage in exile, the certificate of his child's birth, the certificate of the decease of the father and mother; and they had duplicates, duly authenticated, made to answer all necessary requirements.
As to Lord David, they sent him to sea, off the coast of Flanders.
The answer is, cynicism-haughty indifference.
Any one who could have lifted the mask with which he covered his inmost heart even before God would have discovered this: that at the very time Barkilphedro had begun to feel finally convinced that it would be impossible-even to him, the intimate and most infinitesimal enemy of Josiana-to find a vulnerable point in her lofty life.
Like every one else, he had been to see the Laughing Man.
He was going to lose his peerage, and had no suspicion of it. One circumstance is noteworthy.
He had a vague longing to be a bishop.
He even went so far as to justify him.
We have seen the result.
That co-operation had continued for fifteen years.
He who whispers to the emperor.
The soldier carried the waif to the colonel of the castle, and the colonel sent it to the High Admiral of England.
Whatever appearance of indifference Barkilphedro tried to exhibit, his wonder had equalled his joy.
A villain gnawing at his own powerlessness!
Christina seized Monaldeschi, had him confessed and assassinated, and said,--
He had quietly prepared everything beforehand.
To commit a crime and emblazon it, there is the sum total of history.
What had she now before her?
Gwynplaine, by the inscription over his door, was soon found.
To know that the future husband of her sister was deformed, sufficed the queen.
One has the attributes of the scorpion, the other those rather of the leopard.
And what a climax for Josiana!
Protector of whom?
"We, the undersigned, brought up and kept, for eight years, for professional purposes, the little lord bought by us of the king.
Such are the hidden channels by which truth, swallowed up in the gulf of human actions, floats to the surface."
CHAPTER one
Gwynplaine did not understand.
The groom of the gibbet seized one foot and then the other, and the heels fell back on the ground.
So be it!
"He is dead."
And may the Holy Virgin aid us, Amen.
This man, who was the executioner's assistant, "groom of the gibbet," the old charters call him, went to the prisoner, took off the stones, one by one, from his chest, and lifted the plate of iron up, exposing the wretch's crushed sides.
He is imprisoned in the dungeon of Chatham.
This message addressed to justice has been faithfully delivered by the sea."
Gaizdorra, Captain, that means chief.
The prisoner opened his eyes, lifted his head, and, with a voice strangely resonant of agony, but which had still an indescribable calm mingled with its hoarseness, pronounced in excruciating accents, from under the mass of stones, words to pronounce each of which he had to lift that which was like the slab of a tomb placed upon him.
They had, however, replaced in the flask a sort of bung made of tarred oakum, which had been used to cork it.
It is time to awake.
And he added,--
There were women, Asuncion, and the other.
Then the sheriff, resuming that monotonous tone of voice which resembles nothing else, and which may be termed a judicial accent, turned towards the sufferer.
I was afraid of him.
He gave the secretary time to write, and then said,--
Destiny sometimes proffers us a glass of madness to drink.
The sheriff turned the parchment, and raised it in his right hand, to expose it to the light.
By a sign the justice of the quorum set in motion the man dressed in leather.
"This fact is the result of his youth, and the slight powers of memory he could have had when he was bought and sold, being then barely two years old.
Now it was unsealed and open.
He began to speak, like one who speaks unconsciously.
Men of dark lives are faithful, and hell has its honour.
When Gwynplaine was seated, the justice of the quorum and the wapentake retired a few steps, and stood upright and motionless, behind the seat.
"That child is Lord Fermain Clancharlie, the only legitimate son of Lord Linnaeus Clancharlie, Baron Clancharlie and Hunkerville, Marquis of Corleone in Sicily, a peer of England, and of Ann Bradshaw, his wife, both deceased.
And he bowed to him.
"Gernardus, yes, the doctor.
"Yes," he said; "I have come to awaken you.
"He was sold at the age of two, after the death of the peer, his father, and ten pounds sterling were given to the king as his purchase money, as well as for divers concessions, tolerations, and immunities.
It was a gourd, with handles like ears, covered with wicker. This bottle had evidently seen service, and had sojourned in the water. Shells and seaweed adhered to it.
We did it between us-the king and I: the king, by his will; I, by my art!"
"Ah," said Gwynplaine, "awake me!"
"It was in this bottle," said the sheriff, "that the men about to perish placed the declaration which I have just read.
"The cemetery of the jail is opposite."
The other hand, being raised, fell back likewise.
You have been dreaming.
He placed on the table something which the secretary had just taken out of the bag.
Between the interstices of wicker was a narrow line of red reed, blackened here and there by the action of water and of time.
"Has been wickedly deserted on the desert coast of Portland, with the intention of allowing him to perish of hunger, of cold, and of solitude, a child ten years old.
That child is the inheritor of the estates and titles of his father.
Then he freed his wrists and ankle bones from the four chains that fastened him to the pillars.
For twenty five years you have slept.
You believe yourself to be one of the people; you belong to the peerage.
And he stood up, pale as death.
The sheriff, who had allowed the prisoner to speak, resumed,--
"Behold it," said the sheriff.
He was rather old than young, and very precise.
He spoke,--
All in different handwritings."
"In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
I have kept it as long as I could.
For this reason I speak.
The prisoner, released alike from stones and chains, lay flat on the ground, his eyes closed, his arms and legs apart, like a crucified man taken down from a cross.
He looked behind him to see who it was who had been addressed.
"Now, we have sworn secrecy to the king, but not to God.
They did not close again; the glassy eyeballs remained fixed.
"'tis of little consequence," said the sheriff.
The sheriff took the gourd, and turned to the light one of its sides, which had, no doubt, been cleaned for the ends of justice.
"Now laugh for ever!"
"He laughed; that killed him."
The naked feet of an extended corpse seem, as it were, to bristle.
"After confession, life or death is a mere formality."
He raised his voice, turning to the motionless prisoner,--
And he himself began to laugh.
The fingers remained inert, and the toes motionless.
His name was Capgaroupe.
The wapentake nodded again.
A hand is thrust out of the mist, and suddenly hands us the mysterious cup in which is contained the latent intoxication.
The sheriff, holding in his left hand the nosegay and in his right the white wand, placed himself opposite Gwynplaine, who was still seated, and made him a low bow; then assuming another solemn attitude, he turned his head over his shoulder, and looking Gwynplaine in the face, said,--
This second laugh, wilder yet than the first, might have been taken for a sob.
The sheriff interrupted, saying,--"Here are the signatures.
"In the same way that Harrow Hill produces excellent wheat, which is turned into fine flour for the royal table, so the sea renders every service in its power to England, and when a nobleman is lost finds and restores him."
The doctor rose up and said,--
The sheriff increased the majesty of his tones, and continued,--
He let it be done, without seeking an explanation.
Gwynplaine was as a man on whose head a tile falls from the palace of dreams.
He saluted Gwynplaine with ease and respect-with the ease of a gentleman in waiting, and without the awkwardness of a judge.
You believe yourself a player; you are a senator.
And we attach our signatures."
His eyelids closed.
The sheriff, after a pause, resumed, a "note written in the same hand as the text and the first signature," and he read,--
"I swore to keep the secret.
"On this flask, as you say, there is a name written in red."
The groom of the gibbet took up a hand and let it go; the hand fell back.
He used to drink out of a flat bottle on which there was a name written in red."
Now silence is useless.
The sheriff placed the parchment on the table, laid down his spectacles, took up the nosegay, and said,--
"That child was sold at the age of two years, by order of his most gracious Majesty, King james the Second.
"A corpse to be carried away to night."
An old, sad looking man.
And looking at Gwynplaine,--
He felt himself placed in the chair which the sheriff had just vacated.
Well-yes; 'tis he!
"This is the fourth day, and that which is legally set apart for the confrontation, and he who was deserted on the twenty ninth of January, one thousand six hundred and ninety, having been brought into your presence, your devilish hope has vanished, you have broken silence, and recognized your victim."
"I come to awake you indeed," said a voice which had not yet been heard.
There was a ring of tar round its neck, showing that it had been hermetically sealed.
A man came out from behind the pillars.
The wapentake acquiesced by a nod.
You believe yourself to be Gwynplaine; you are Clancharlie.
The wapentake and the justice of the quorum approached Gwynplaine and took him by the arms.
And the sheriff added,--
Then, the parchment being read to you which was contained, folded and enclosed within it, you would say no more; and in the hope, doubtless, that the lost child would never be recovered, and that you would escape punishment, you refuse to answer.
The serjeant on the right, the doctor, the justice of the quorum, the wapentake, the secretary, all the attendants except the executioner, repeated his salutation still more respectfully, and bowed to the ground before Gwynplaine.
"That child was brought up, and trained to be a mountebank at markets and fairs.
THE DURABILITY OF FRAGILE THINGS.
The laughed ceased, and the man lay back.
You believe yourself poor; you are wealthy. You believe yourself to be of no account; you are important.
Awake, my lord!"
The forester climbed up, brought the child down, and thought to himself: 'You will take him home with you, and bring him up with your Lina.' He took it home, therefore, and the two children grew up together.
Early next morning the forester got up and went out hunting, and when he was gone the children were still in bed.
The two children therefore got up, dressed themselves quickly, and went away.
And the one, which he had found on a tree was called Fundevogel, because a bird had carried it away.
Then the cook sent three servants after them, who were to run and overtake the children.
But when she came in, and went to the beds, both the children were gone.
Then said Lina: 'Fundevogel, never leave me, and I will never leave you.' Then said Fundevogel: 'Neither now, nor ever.' Said Lina: 'Be a fishpond, and I will be the duck upon it.' The cook, however, came up to them, and when she saw the pond she lay down by it, and was about to drink it up.
'He is called All gone.' 'All gone,' cried the mouse 'that is the most suspicious name of all!
'Half done!
CAT AND MOUSE IN PARTNERSHIP
Then she took a walk upon the roofs of the town, looked out for opportunities, and then stretched herself in the sun, and licked her lips whenever she thought of the pot of fat, and not until it was evening did she return home. 'Well, here you are again,' said the mouse, 'no doubt you have had a merry day.' 'All went off well,' answered the cat.
She said to the mouse: 'You must do me a favour, and once more manage the house for a day alone.
I have never seen it in print.
'Alas!' said the mouse, 'now I see what has happened, now it comes to light!
All gone; what can that mean?' and she shook her head, curled herself up, and lay down to sleep.
Let me go out today, and you look after the house by yourself.' 'Yes, yes,' answered the mouse, 'by all means go, and if you get anything very good to eat, think of me.
'Top off!' cried the mouse, 'that is a very odd and uncommon name, is it a usual one in your family?' 'What does that matter,' said the cat, 'it is no worse than Crumb stealer, as your godchildren are called.'
She went straight to the church, stole to the pot of fat, began to lick at it, and licked the top of the fat off.
When she went home the mouse inquired: 'And what was the child christened?' 'Half done,' answered the cat.
Next morning when the cows were being driven out, the little peasant called the cow herd in and said: 'Look, I have a little calf there, but it is still small and has to be carried.' The cow herd said: 'All right,' and took it in his arms and carried it to the pasture, and set it among the grass.
The others were all obliged to retire to a distance, and when the peasant looked at the priest, he recognized the man who had been with the miller's wife.
There was a certain village wherein no one lived but really rich peasants, and just one poor one, whom they called the little peasant.
He began to think that he was the victim of a nightmare.
It's liberty we require."
The answer came pat to the question.
What do they mean to do next?"
"What, here?"
From the dark hull of the brig broke a flash and a report, and a musket ball cut the water beside them with a chirping noise.
I am mistress here."
Julius took it from him.
Julius looked at him with satisfaction.
As this was the first time he had been called to the Hall, he was naturally very pleased, and was very attentive.
dr Payne, I hope I see you well."
Lucy thought-but it matters little what she thought.
"I like doing things," he explained frankly; "it's fun.
I should have done so had she not goaded me into speech.
"mr Durham told me so."
"I fear not, doctor.
"Let us keep to the matter in hand.
"And that makes him perfect in your eyes," said Beryl, looking savage. "See here, Lucy, Conniston has left the army-so you see he is not so brave as you think."
I never loved you, but I have always tried to see the best side of you.
She is most respectable."
She was angry with herself because she felt that in speaking of Conniston she had colored.
"All I can get," rejoined Beryl, quietly.
"Good bye, Jerry," said Beryl, kindly.
"But Lucy-"
"It is just as well he did die, though."
"His lordship got me a situation at a tobacconist's," said the child like Moon, "and then he got me turned off."
Lucy had a high temper, which had been kept in subjection during the life of Sir Simon. But now that she tasted the sweets of power she was not disposed to allow Julius to treat her as he chose.
"Don't forget me."
I heard he enlisted in the Lancers."
But I am hoping against hope," said Lucy, rising.
"mr Durham requires proof of the death," rejoined Lucy, sharply; "and until then, he is bound to administer the estate according to the will. As Bernard's body has not been found, there is always a chance that he may have escaped."
"Although you swore for an hour, I should never believe you.
Miss Berengaria turned to Beryl.
"To seek after Bernard," said Julius, slowly, "and I believe Bernard may be alive after all."
I have not much money now, but I will have some-a great deal some day."
"Why?
But she was expected back momentarily, and Miss Berengaria wished to get rid of Julius before the girl returned.
"Is she cheerful?" asked Lucy languidly.
Was she very much attached to mr Gore?"
What's the use of his coming to life when he must suffer for his crime?"
"That's Lord Conniston's place," said Miss Berengaria, more perplexed than ever.
Did you ever meet him?"
Beryl's vanity was hurt.
"The kind gentleman got them for me, ma'am."
You do not get it."
It was Sir Simon's wish that we should marry, and, owing to my circumstances, I had no choice in the matter.
I often visit her, not professionally, for she is as healthy as a trout in a pond."
But you do not care for me."
"A complete rest is what you need," he said to Miss Randolph.
But the fact of Conniston leaving the army and from Durham's attitude I shrewdly suspect he is, and in hiding.
"In which case you would give him up to the police."
"What were you doing there?"
So far she had failed, but she did not intend to abandon her claim for one failure.
"I don't know whether you intend to marry Bernard or Lord Conniston," he said, "but I wish, which ever it is, joy of a spitfire."
Miss Berengaria was as usual in the garden looking after the well-being of some white chrysanthemums.
"I always do good-"
He departed smiling, and they heard him gallop off.
Bernard had a high temper, but he could not always control it, and was a kind hearted boy.
"From what I read in the papers it is just as well mr Gore did not live," said Payne, rising to take his leave.
He will tell you if you like to see him."
"Conniston is a scamp.
But at present he looked charmingly innocent, although he already knew much more about life than was good for him.
Lucy suffered severely from the shock of Sir Simon's tragic death, and from the supposed death of Sir Bernard.
They think I'm a kind of Holy Bill, and I let them think so.
"We don't know that Bernard is alive.
He has shown his hand too plainly.
"He is innocent."
In a few years, when his passions worked their way through the mask, his face, now so smooth and innocent, would be wrinkled and sinful.
"I shall write a note to her to day," said Lucy.
I will have nothing to do with you.
It pays."
I swear I do."
"I should have thought she would have felt it more," said Lucy, perplexed.
"So far as I am concerned I should like to break the engagement, Julius. We were never suited to one another."
"Yes.
"And you have refused to share my fortune with me."
There he paused to utter a final insulting speech.
With his clear skin, his fair hair and wide blue eyes he looked like the conventional picture of a cherub.
"Bernard is the owner of Gore Hall and of all the property, and of the title also.
"Perhaps you would like me to go," sneered Julius.
As it was, and with great diplomacy-so great that it deceived even the astute Beryl-she asked him to come into the house.
No one could have been meeker, and although Miss Randolph did not like or trust the woman, she had no fault to find with her in any way.
"Yes.
Let me show you that I am not so careless of others or so hard hearted as I seem to be. Miss Plantagenet wants a page.
"But he talks too much."
"I sincerely trust not."
The boy was a handsome, innocent looking little fellow, rather undersized.
"I don't believe that."
"If he was guilty.
"What a pretty lad!"
But his mind had not yet had time to work on his face, and the mask of his childhood-for he was only thirteen-concealed his evil nature successfully.
"Is Alice-Miss Malleson also well?"
Julius, walking towards the Bower, was also angry with himself.
Julius picked up the ring and slipped it into his waistcoat pocket calmly.
"Because, if he is guilty, his action gives the lie to his whole life, Julius," she replied, raising herself on her elbow.
The boy told me himself.
But, apart from this, the fact that he suspected someone of passing himself off as Bernard startled her, and opened an abyss at her feet.
"Alice has such a tender heart."
No man could have lived in the cold and the fog.
"I might help him to escape.
During his life I was merely a puppet.
"Probably, but she bears up wonderfully.
On leaving the office she judged it best to lower her crest for the moment and to wait patiently to see what would transpire.
"I am not hard hearted," snapped Beryl.
The boy chuckled as though he had received a compliment.
"I have a right to a portion of the estate."
"Oh, that's all right, mr Beryl.
"Would I be better off if I married you?"
So far as he saw, Miss Malleson was remarkably cheerful under her sorrow.
"He left so as to seek after Bernard," said Lucy, quickly.
He was a messenger boy at a tobacconist called Taberley, and Lord Conniston got him turned out of the situation."
Shall I ask Miss Malleson to come over."
"I have met him once.
"You should always hold your tongue," said Miss Berengaria, angrily. "You had no right to tell what Lord Conniston wished kept secret.
"You would never have the pluck," said Lucy, quickly.
"I have an attack of nerves," she replied pettishly.
I will put mr Durham on his guard, and"--here she blushed-"and Lord Conniston."
"Lord! what a bore stopping with her will be.
And remember that if I catch you plotting I will tell mr Durham."
"Quite well," said the doctor, who did not like Beryl, thinking him, in schoolboy phrase, "a sneak." "I am just going, mr Beryl."
It was only a freak on his part.
I'm going to marry her."
"Nor you either.
But he is dead, so you need not cast stones at his memory."
"Now leave the house, mr Beryl.
Go to the kitchen and tell the servants to give you something to eat."
I give you back your ring-here it is!" She wrenched it from her finger.
"Jerry, you are a young scamp of the worst."
"It is no use our quarrelling.
This boy is a grandson of Lord Conniston's housekeeper, mrs Moon."
Lord Conniston is too kind a man to behave in that way.
If Bernard were alive-as Julius began to suspect-he would come to one of these three people, and then Jerry would at once become aware of the fact.
"Yes, sweet lady."
"What else could I do?
"Are you ill, Lucy?" asked Beryl, with affection.
"Why did you accept me then?"
"I am very fond of her, and we get on very well together.
She raised her head when she saw her visitors, and a look of annoyance crossed her face when she saw mr Beryl.
He came forward.
Yes, ma'am, I'm going," and Jerry in answer to an imperative wave of his new mistress's hand disappeared.
She will tell Durham and that interfering Conniston and put them on their guard.
"I lived with grandmother.
There it is, doctor.
Call me ma'am."
She might be able to conceal her real feelings, but Alice being so young and impulsive might show her dislike too plainly and put Beryl on his guard.
Well"--he laughed and looked at the small boy trotting beside him-"I am equal to both."
"How are you sure, my dear Lucy?" asked a third voice, and she looked up to see Julius standing in the doorway.
If it hadn't been for Victoria-the girl I told you about-I should have left long before.
Luckily Alice was out of the way, having gone to pay a visit.
"I lived with grandmother at Cove Castle."
As Lucy thought, he had shown his hand too clearly.
"On the contrary, I speak for his good.
Every man worth calling a man should go to the front."
dr Payne was doubtful.
"Well, you can stay here, boy.
All she knew was that her engagement to Julius, which had always weighed on her conscience, was at an end.
"They will find it difficult to prove that," sneered Beryl, with a white face.
Jerry in answer to a look of Beryl's began to weep ostentatiously.
"Lucy, if you talk to me like that-" began Beryl, and then restrained himself with an effort.
"I'm fly," said Master Moon, and began whistling.
Jerry tossed his fair curls and looked roguish.
"In very good health, and appears resigned to her loss."
Who is he, mr Beryl?"
"I love fowls," said Jerry sweetly, and looking as innocent as a babe, "and dogs and things like that."
He seems to be a most delightful fellow."
Julius stared at the fire.
He left the army at my request."
In fact, the matter so preyed on her nerves that she became prostrate, and dr Payne had to be called in. He was a handsome and popular young doctor who had practiced in Hurseton.
"no Bernard and I are like brother and sister.
I don't want to see him hanged."
"I am not afraid of Durham.
I wish Bernard had lived, so that he could have married her."
But I have just come in.
"At your request?" said Julius, looking at her directly.
"I can't understand Durham's attitude," he said evasively.
"He is a lad I wish you to help," said Beryl, blandly.
"The lesser portion.
"Not always.
"mr Beryl-such a kind gentleman, ma'am-said you would help me."
"I don't want to see him.
mrs Gilroy was a well educated woman and very astute, therefore she hoped to gain her ends by craft if not by force.
His lordship was so angry that he got me turned off, saying I was ungrateful."
Julius looked at the ring which she had thrown at his feet, and laughed. "You take a high tone," he said sneeringly.
I never saw a more attached couple.
Jerry grinned, and ducked towards the door.
Jerry thrust his tongue in his cheek, but Julius answered, "I can vouch for his honesty," he said.
"Don't talk like that, child.
"By blackmailing Bernard," said Lucy, indignantly.
"Why do you think Bernard is innocent?" he asked.
She saw that she had gone too far and had given Durham an inkling as to the possibility of Michael having masqueraded as Bernard. The housekeeper had thought her position unassailable, knowing that she had married Walter Gore; and although there was a flaw in the circumstances upon which she built her claim, yet she trusted to her own cleverness to conceal this from the too clever lawyer.
Beryl did not deny the charge.
His Armour was made of pure Gold, enamell'd with Green.
Now, behold the two Chieftains upon their Legs, commencing a new Trial of Skill! where they seem'd to get the better of each other alternately; for both were strong, and both were active.
Those of the former white as Snow.
He carried the Point so far at last, as to murmur at the unequal Dispensations of Divine Providence; and was tempted to believe, that all Occurrences were govern'd by a malignant Destiny, which never fail'd to oppress the Virtuous, and always crown'd the Actions of such Villains as the green Knight, with uncommon Success.
Some conquer'd two of their Antagonists, and others were so far successful as to get the better of three.
The other Champions play'd their Parts much better; and all came off with Credit.
Victory! in favour of the Champion in white.
The Queen was perfectly transported. The two Champions were reconducted to their separate Lodges, as the others had been before them, in Conformity to the Laws prescrib'd. Several Mutes were order'd to wait on the Champions, and carry them some proper Refreshment.
The Esquires, who were the Attendants, ran to his Assistance, and with a Sneer remounted him.
The fourth Combatant catch'd hold of his Left Leg, and unhors'd him again.
He grew quite out of Patience at last, and cut his Way thro' the insulting Mob, with his Rival's Sabre; but he did not know what Measures to pursue, or how to rectify so gross a Mistake.
In one of his frantick Fits, he put on the green Armour, that had created him such a World of Disgrace.
A Merchant happening to pass by, he sold it to him for a Trifle, and took in Exchange nothing more than a Mantle, and a Cap.
Her eyes had blue marks under them, her chin had grown more pointed, her nose sharper.
She said it, of course, with her dear arms round his neck.
He had no temptations; he had never had but the one.
Then came a rustle, a gritty clatter, loud falling stones: his foot had slipped, and he had fallen.
But always the morning brought strength to keep to his resolution.
And then his trying to get you to South Africa.
You don't remember me?"
Now the Lover and the Onlooker had each his own burden to bear.
Doesn't she perhaps care at all?
"You ought to expose him."
Anyway, I can't stop it." Perhaps he swore a little.
And that was bad.
I must hold my tongue." He held it.
"Do you want some?" he said, and on the instant his hand had found a strong jutting stone, his foot a firm ledge-and she saw his figure, grey flannel against grey stone, go up the wall towards the yellow flowers.
The devil was waiting for the Onlooker in the answers to his careless questions-"Father alive?
He was coming down now.
He had loved the Girl since her early teens, and it was only yesterday's post that had brought him the appointment that one might marry on.
He worked still, though there was now nothing to work for more; he worked as he had never worked in his life, because he knew that if he did not take to work he should take to drink or worse devils, and he set his teeth and swore that her Lover should not be degraded.
The other two were in Paradise.
That roused the Lover, as it was meant to do.
One must not quote it-it is not proper to read other people's letters, especially letters to a trusted father, from a child, only and adored.
Not even for you-not even for you.
And there was no work that could shut out that sight-no temptation of the world, the flesh, or the devil to give him even the relief of a fight.
They parted.
"It's a complicated nuisance," the father mused; "it isn't even as if I knew anything of the chap.
Ye'll mak' a fine soldier, my lad."
Moral maxims and ethereal ideas notwithstanding, it was impossible for him to be glad that she was happy-like that.
His coming was heralded by a letter from her.
Even then he tried to be strong.
"Well-you know best, I suppose," he said to himself.
He turned away, and went back along the green path with hell in his heart.
"I believe you're right," said the Lover thoughtfully; "I couldn't have believed that a man could be base like that, through and through.
He drove his passion on the curb, and mastered it.
You look very worried, very ill. News like that is a great shock."
"I don't really know what business it is of yours, sir," he said; "but it's your business to know that they wouldn't pass a man with a heart like mine."
His soul was naked to the bitter wind of the actual; and the days went by, went by, and every day he knew more and more surely that he had lied and thrown away his soul, and that the wages of sin were death, and no other thing whatever.
She would never have believed anyone who had told her that only two minutes had been lived between the moment of his stumble and the other moment when his foot touched the grass and he came towards her among the fallen wallflowers.
Then the Lover went and told the Girl.
"I don't know.
When he had told the Girl everything, and when she was able to do anything but laugh and cry and cling to him with thin hands, she said-
She was a very nice girl and not at all forward, and I cannot understand or excuse her conduct.
"Looks like as if he was going to a wedding," said his landlady.
There was no sound at all but the grating of his feet as he set them on the stones, and the movement, now and then, of a bird in the ivy.
At last-the father pressed him-he went.
There was a new line on her forehead, and her eyes had changed.
"But why should he?"
He had another caller that afternoon; he whom we know as the Onlooker came to thank him for the influence that had got him the appointment as doctor to the Influential Insurance Company.
But I never could stand my sister Fanny.
And that was just as long as he had loved her.
Will she marry someone else before I've earned the right to try to make her love me? afforded a see saw of reflection, agonising enough, for those small hours of wakefulness when we let our emotions play the primitive games with us.
"But I may die at any moment."
She did not pick them up.
A faulty, or at least a slow working, charm, however, for the father did not lift a bag of gold from his safe and say: "Take her, take this also-be happy"--he only consented to a provisional engagement, took an earnest interest in the young man's affairs, and offered to make his daughter an annual allowance on her marriage.
And you-I hope it won't be as hard for you as it will for me."
"Are you still going on with your usual work?"
What did he die of?" For the answer was "Heart," and in it the devil rose and showed the Onlooker the really only true and artistic way to develop the action in this situation, so dramatic in its possibilities.
He's very, very clever."
"Yes."
I mean, don't you think he may have lied to you to prevent your-marrying me?"
You will have to tell him you lied-and tell him why. You will never let him go to South Africa without telling him the truth-and you know it."
Two miles away he stopped and lit a pipe.
You lessen your chances of life!
"He asked me to marry him three weeks ago.
"I don't care," she said, for the touch of his cheek, pressed against her hair, told her all that she wanted to know.
I oughtn't to have allowed the child to make these long visits to her aunt.
"They shine like gold," she said.
Of course, a really honourable young man would have got out of the situation somehow.
The Onlooker had never done anything wronger than you have done, my good reader, and he never expected to meet a giant temptation, any more than you do.
He went back to London, hell burning briskly.
I should try it if I were you.
The two were alone in the grassy courtyard of the ruined castle.
The illuminative flash of temptation was so sudden, so brilliant, that the Doctor Onlooker closed his soul's eyes and yielded without even the least pretence of resistance.
Oh, how could you be so silly and horrid?
It was an hour full of poignant sentiments.
And gradually, little by little, the whole worth of life seemed to lie in the faint, far chance of his being able to undo the one triumphantly impulsive and unreasoning action of his life.
As, in fact, he had.
The father opened his heart to the Onlooker-and the Onlooker had to bear it.
Or I ought to have gone with her.
On the other hand, Apollyon may be waiting for one round the corner of the next street.
He caught at it as a drowning man catches at a white gleam in the black of the surging sea about him-it may be a painted spar, it may be empty foam.
And at last, out of hell, the Onlooker reached out his hands and caught at prayer.
"Because I won't; because it's wrong.
You will have to eat your lie. Yes-though it will smash your life and ruin you socially and professionally.
"But are you perfectly certain?"
So he took next day a much earlier train than was at all pleasant, and called on her father to explain his position and set forth his prospects.
They're not so particular just now.
Yet they talked for hours.
And that very evening he ran up against the Lover at the Temple Station, and he got into the same carriage with him.
Oh, how could you?"
It was for the last time-the last, last time.
"Let them come, I don't care!
"Oh, don't!" she cried.
They want men.
That's all."
For she loved him, had loved him these two years, had loved him since the day of their first meeting.
"Not I-we'll just cut him.
That's all I'll trouble to do.
And many of them well off, too.
But do you really think that man was mistaken?
He didn't.
I do hate to be suspicious-but-it is odd.
He took his stethoscope from the table, and he felt as though he had picked up a knife to stab the other man in the back.
But the Onlooker was no dreamer, and he saw her about three times a week.
There was really a third at that interview.
The only definite thought that came to the Onlooker was this-"I must hold my tongue.
The Lover was short with the Onlooker; but he persisted.
Its effect may be indicated briefly.
So she clasped her hands and waited, and her heart seemed to go out like a candle in the wind, and to leave only a dark, empty, sickening space where, a moment before, it had beat in anxious joy.
You'll forgive me-won't you?
Does she wonder why I don't speak? and the counter questions-Will she think I don't care?
If he did, the less precise and devotional may pardon him.
"I suppose it was you who saw him, by the way," said he, "a tall, well set-up young fellow-dark-not bad looking."
And the very first man who came to him for medical examination was the man in whose arms he had seen the girl he loved.
And now he had reached the wallflowers high up, and was plucking them and throwing them down so that they fell in a wavering bright shower round her feet.
And so it was all over-the dreams, the hopes, the palpitating faith in a beautiful future.
"Well, if one isn't interested in one's life, one may be interested in one's death-or the manner of it.
My father ought never to have married.
His days might be long, they might be brief; but be his life long or short, he must live it alone.
If you don't have a complete change you'll go all to pieces.
To himself he was saying: "The situation is dramatically good; but I don't see how to develop the action.
"I fear my verdict was a great blow.
Thank God!
In your place, I should enlist.
"At my death she will have more," he said, "for, of course, I have insured my life.
Her eyes were on him; and the empty place where her heart used to be seemed to swell till it almost choked her.
Oh, thank God!
And though he had denied himself the joy of speaking in words, he had let his eyes speak more than he knew.
It showed the father that the Girl's happiness had had two long years in which to learn to grow round the thought of the young man, whom he now faced for the first time.
"I won't give you up just because you're ill," she said; "why, you want me more than ever!"
He met her. And it was as though he had met the ghost of her whom he had loved.
The picture was charming, too-a picture to wring the heart of the onlooker with envy, or sympathy, according to his nature.
"I'm not likely to have forgotten you," said the Lover.
He was only about twenty five feet from the ground.
He walked down the street, certain words ringing in his ears-"Heart affected-probably hereditary weakness.
I must set my teeth and bear it.
"My child-Sir Henry-and Sir William and mr--"
"Speaking professionally, I think you are wrong.
Yet the questions-Does she love me?
He had no right to bring me into the world to suffer like this. It's a crime.
Ten minutes later, the stabbed man was reeling from the Onlooker's consulting room.
Does she know I love her?
"Don't!" he said tenderly, "don't worry.
"So may I! And you may live to be a hundred-I'll take my chance.
"It's impossible," he said, "it's no good.
"Dear-I do so hate to think badly of anyone.
This time he reeled like a man too drunk to care how drunk he looks.
However, the letter lay in the prosperous pocket book in the breast of the father's frock coat, and the Lover was received as though that letter were a charm to ensure success.
"Perfectly.
His smile struck her dumb.
Well, well," and he went back to his work with the plain unvarnished heartache of the anxious father-not romantic and pretty like the lover's pangs, but as uncomfortable as toothache, all the same.
And now the Onlooker dared not meet her-dared not call at the house as he had used to do.
Yer hairt's as sound's a roach. T'other man must ha' been asleep when ye consulted him.
"Oh, any good office-the Influential, if you like.
He wanted you to get killed.
"I-I don't remember," lied the Onlooker, with the eyes of his memory on the white face of the man he had stabbed.
The Onlooker got out at the next station.
But there are some acts that there is no undoing.
He saw her three times a year, when Christmas, Easter, and Midsummer brought her to stay with an aunt, brought him home to his people for holidays.
No office in the world would insure you."
Why don't you try a complete change?"
There are plenty who transgress the code, but they are in all the other stories.
You, of course, will insure yours."
But it didn't.
I tell you, man, you're sound's a bell, and a fine fathom of a young man ye are, too.
He saw how the light of life that his lying lips had blown out was not to be rekindled by his or any man's breath.
Certain?
I didn't know-and-oh, what's the use of talking?"
And then he bought a gardenia, and went home and dressed himself in his most beautiful frock coat and his softest white silk tie, and put the gardenia in his button hole-and went to see the Girl.
He accepted it, with his arms round her and his lips against the face where the tears now ran warm and salt.
He was moving along now, slowly-hanging by his hands; now he grasped an ivy root-another-and pulled himself up till his knee was on the moulding of the arch.
"I think not," said the Lover-and he went out from the presence.
Then he had to wake up.
I ought to be glad.
It's all right-I was a fool. Pull yourself together-there's someone coming."
Then she stopped, because he was already some twelve feet from the ground, and she knew that one should not speak to a man who is climbing ruined walls.
"Because-if you must know, my chances of life have ceased to interest me."
He had a little fight with himself as he went down Wimpole Street; then he hailed a hansom, and went and told her father, who quite agreed with him that it was all over.
The sky was deep, clear, strong blue above, and against the blue, the wallflowers shone bravely from the cracks and crevices of ruined arch and wall and buttress.
I'm a director, you know."
There is a code of honour, right or wrong, and it forbids a man with an income of a hundred and fifty a year to speak of love to a girl who is reckoned an heiress.
The appointment had come through her father, for whom the Onlooker had fagged at Eton.
The rest of the picnic party had wandered away from them, or they from it. Out of the green grown mound of fallen masonry by the corner of the chapel a great may bush grew, silvered and pearled on every scented, still spray.
He drove in cabs from Harley Street to Wimpole Street, and from Wimpole Street to Brooke Street-and he saw Sir William this and Sir Henry that, and mr The other thing, the great heart specialist.
Oh, thank God, thank God!
And I'll not be a criminal.
It seemed to him that there were so many more of the same pattern from whom she might have chosen.
He said, "Excuse me.
He saw her slenderness turn to thinness, the pure, healthy pallor of her rounded cheek change to a sickly white, covering a clear cut mask of set endurance.
Odd, for to the father he seemed just like other young men.
He knew that she loved him, and there was a kind of fierce pain pleasure-like that of scratching a sore-in the thought that she was as wretched as he was, that, divided in all else, they were yet united in their suffering.
The Onlooker asked the first needful questions automatically.
Short of owning to his own lie, he had done what he could to insure its being found out for the lie it was-or, at least, for a mistake.
"Of course I will," the Lover echoed warmly; "does it matter what office?"
The young man made a reverent note of the name, and the interview seemed played out.
Oh, how can people be so cruel!"
But there was only one onlooker, a man of forty, or thereabouts, who paused for an instant under the great gate of the castle and took in the full charm and meaning of the scene.
But he had never told his love.
Three days later he took up his new work.
The Onlooker prayed.
When mr Whitlock learned that she had been tried and sentenced to death he did everything possible to secure her pardon, or at least a moderation of the punishment.
"My dear Baron:
From that time on spies dogged her tracks.
"I may be looked on as an old maid," she is reported as saying, "but with my work and my mother I am a very happy one, and desire nothing more as long as I have these two."
All day long lines of men waited to sign the papers of enlistment, and in Miss Cavell's home town every eligible man was sworn into the army.
Brussels became a part of the German Empire and a tyrannical governor came there to establish his headquarters, issuing proclamations threatening the Belgians with death for minor offenses, and filling Brussels with spies and intrigue.
She cared for the wounded German soldiers and nursed a number of German officers, as well as the Belgians who were in her care, but this made no difference to the authorities.
"BRAND WHITLOCK."
Her father had died by this time, but her mother was close to her heart and she saw her as often as she could.
It was not fitting, they thought, that an enemy should be engaged in works of mercy, even though they themselves might benefit thereby.
As the name of Florence Nightingale became world famous at the close of the Crimean War more than sixty years ago, the name of another English nurse who suffered martyrdom in the World War will go down into history with the lustre of glory and self sacrifice surrounding it.
Her regular duties were severe enough but she used a large part of her scanty leisure for such purposes as these.
She was taken to prison and placed in solitary confinement.
He went at once to the German authorities, but they evaded his questions and waited ten days before giving him a reply.
She then returned to her home and remained there until, when twenty one years old and resolved to give her life to some useful and benevolent occupation, she decided to become a trained nurse and went to London to study that calling.
After the execution they refused to return the body.
All these promises were broken.
Her words resembled those of Florence Nightingale that have been quoted elsewhere in this book.
He granted it, for the quiet English nurse made an impression upon him.
In England this murder did more to stimulate recruiting than anything else up to that time.
"I am too ill to present my request to you in person, but I appeal to your generosity of heart to support it and save this unfortunate woman from death.
But word of her plight did reach England through a traveler, and at once the British Government requested the American Ambassador, dr Page, to get what information he could from Brand Whitlock, the American Minister in Belgium.
When her death became known, the entire civilized world was shocked and horrified.
She was dressed in her nurse's uniform and wore the badge of the Red Cross.
CHAPTER twenty nine
Edith and her sister were brought up in strict conformance with church ideas and were taught the value of leading useful lives and the glory of self sacrifice.
It was only from a private source that mr de Leval learned that the trial was under way, and that the death sentence had been given.
As was customary at the time when she was a young girl she received her education on the continent, attending school in the city of Brussels in Belgium.
And when they sought him for an explanation and for assistance, he had disappeared.
He was not allowed to see the prisoner-and was not even allowed to look at the documents in the case until the trial began.
A blow was the only response when she tried to expostulate.
An American lawyer, mr de Leval, was requested by mr Whitlock to take Miss Cavell's case and do whatever was possible in her behalf.
She studied at the London Hospital-a place, we are told, where the hardest and most difficult conditions prevailed, and where the nurses were worked to the limit of their strength.
All through the day the American Legation sent message after message to the German authorities asking for information.
In nineteen o six Edith Cavell left the English hospitals, where she had made a reputation for herself, and went back to Brussels, where she took a position as matron in a Medical and Surgical Home.
They were determined to detect her in some crime and punish her.
If what they said were true, there was still no cause for killing the unfortunate woman in their power, for she was not accused at any time of having been a spy.
She wore an English flag over her bosom. Only Germans were witnesses of the execution, but the German chaplain who attended said that she died like a heroine.
She told him that she was not in the least afraid of death and willingly gave her life for her country.
And soon spies began to come to the Governor with tales and fabrications of the crimes that she had been committing in their eyes. They bore witness that she had given an overcoat to a Frenchman who was cold and hungry-and the Frenchman later escaped over the Dutch frontier.
Her father was an English minister of the old school who was rector of a single parish in Norwich for more than half a century.
This was the German statement.
She was popular everywhere in the Belgian capital, and although Protestant, she gained the praise of the Roman Catholic priests for the generous and unselfish work that she performed.
She wrote a letter commenting on the German army when it swept through Belgium-and in it she voiced her pity for the tired, footsore German soldiers,--who were later to slay her.
We are told that the arrogant German formed a high opinion of her-so much so that he secretly determined to keep her under the strictest supervision!
Death, she said, was well known to her, and she had seen it so often that it was not strange or fearful to her.
But the main reason that the Germans hated her was because she was held in great affection by the people of Brussels.
Have pity on her.
But they had planned to try her for her life, and mr Whitlock soon guessed this, in spite of the fact that the Germans kept their preparations from him so far as possible.
He never came to see them afterward.
Von Bissing to mitigate the sentence, and at eleven in the evening he was told that Von Bissing refused to do anything to save Miss Cavell's life.
Once she gave a glass of water to a Belgian soldier.
He never informed them that the death sentence had been imposed.
She had given money to poor people, perhaps to soldiers.
Her arrest was shrouded with the most careful secrecy, for the Germans did not want to have the representatives of neutral governments, such as the United States, know of the affair or of what they proposed to do.
Had he been drunk one might understand it!
'No, really!
'Really it is nothing,' answered Olenin. 'Take it, and you will give me a present, and we'll go on an expedition against the enemy together.'
'Why harness the horse?
On the contrary, vague suspicions that the cadet had some evil intentions filled his mind.
'How are you called?'
Take the grey horse to his house.'
Vanyusha, bring us some chikhir.
However, the truth soon got about in the village, and Lukashka's mother and Maryanka, as well as Elias Vasilich and other Cossacks, when they heard of Olenin's unnecessary gift, were perplexed, and began to be on their guard against the cadet.
His calmness and the ease of his behaviour surprised Olenin, and he did not even quite like it.
After that you have nothing to fear.'
He asked me to lie in ambush by the road where they come down from the mountains.
Shall we go together?
But I have not got a horse yet.'
'Oh dear no! I've only just joined, and have not got a horse yet, and don't know how to get one.
Then, having led the horse out of the gate, he suddenly shook his head, threw the reins of the halter over its head, sprang onto its back like a cat, gave a wild shout, and galloped down the street.
What those intentions were he could not decide, but neither could he admit the idea that a stranger would give him a horse worth forty rubles for nothing, just out of kindness; it seemed impossible.
'Perhaps we may be going together.
Lukashka took hold of the halter.
'God willing I'll find a way to repay you,' he said, finishing his wine.
'Well, and did you come here of your own free will, or were you sent?' said Lukashka, laughing at him.
'Look! that's where you lost your way,' he added, 'you should have turned to the right.'
'By which gate do you enter?' asked Olenin.
They were still surrounded by the deep gloom of the forest.
Come into the hut.'
'Why should you make me a present?
Olenin felt keenly, that night especially, that here in this village was his home, his family, all his happiness, and that he never had and never would live so happily anywhere as he did in this Cossack village.
Now you must come to see us.
Olenin could not refrain from replying that he had not only one, but several houses.
Olenin was as happy as a boy of twelve.
They are trotters, you know....
'I heard you singing last night, and also saw you.'
It's a good horse.
We will be kunaks.
'What's there to be frightened about?
They talked long, and it was late when Lukashka, not tipsy (he never was tipsy) but having drunk a good deal, left Olenin after shaking hands.
'We were bargaining for one beyond the river the other day and they would not take sixty rubles for it, though it is a Nogay horse.'
There now, only the other day, what a boar I killed, and I divided it among the Cossacks, but if I had only known, I'd have given it to you.' 'That's all right, thank you!
Lukashka and Maryanka he involuntarily united in his mind, and he found pleasure in thinking about them.
Lukashka rode home, jumped off the horse, and handed it over to his mother, telling her to let it out with the communal Cossack herd.
'Really now, I have two and I don't want both.'
Olenin thought that Lukashka wanted to see Maryanka and he was also glad of the companionship of such a pleasant looking and sociable Cossack.
'Yes, I heard of it,' replied another profoundly, 'he must have done him some great service.
Lukashka went back alone to the cordon pondering over Olenin's action. Though he did not consider the horse a good one, yet it was worth at least forty rubles and Lukashka was very glad to have the present.
Or don't you want to be a drabant?' said Olenin, glad that it had entered his head to give a horse to Lukashka, though, without knowing why, he felt uncomfortable and confused and did not know what to say when he tried to speak.
'Then come in with me.
On reaching home, to Lukashka's great surprise, Olenin with his own hands led out of the shed a horse he had bought in Groznoe-it was not the one he usually rode but another-not a bad horse though no longer young, and gave it to Lukashka.
And how can you help being afraid? Even we are afraid,' said Lukashka to set Olenin's self esteem at rest, and he laughed too.
Lukashka seemed quite to have quieted down and to have understood Olenin's attitude towards him.
Lukashka sat down and took the wine bowl.
We'll get on by ourselves by God's help.'
Lukashka became confused.
But why it had been given him he could not at all understand, and therefore he did not experience the least feeling of gratitude.
'I would go on an expedition any day,' said Lukashka. 'D'you hear the jackals howling?' he added, listening.
'Every one...' and luke swayed his head.
'It's all right!
'A good house?
'He loves Maryanka,' thought Olenin, 'and I could love her,' and a new and powerful emotion of tenderness overcame him as they walked homewards together through the dark forest.
'Why should you give me a present?' said Lukashka, 'I have not yet done anything for you.'
'Yes, we'll go; we'll go some day.'
'I have a hundred horses, worth three or four hundred rubles each, but they are not like yours.
The wine was brought.
He might have wished to show off. But the cadet had been sober, and therefore must have wished to bribe him to do something wrong.
He was so fond of everybody and especially of Lukashka that night.
Lukashka too felt happy; something akin to love made itself felt between these two very different young men.
'Have you heard,' said one, 'that the cadet quartered on Elias Vasilich has thrown a fifty ruble horse at Lukashka?
It had grown quite dark before, talking in this way, they approached the village.
The wind howled through the tree tops.
And there is something else I'll tell you if you like,' said Lukashka, bending his head.
He told no one how he had got the horse.
'I am a cadet, but have been recommended for a commission.'
The Captain and the head of the village rode away, and Olenin, to please Lukashka as well as to avoid going back alone through the dark forest, asked the corporal to give Lukashka leave, and the corporal did so.
The jackals suddenly seemed to be crying close beside them, howling, chuckling, and sobbing; but ahead of them in the village the sounds of women's voices and the barking of dogs could already be heard; the outlines of the huts were clearly to be seen; lights gleamed and the air was filled with the peculiar smell of kisyak smoke.
'And what would a horse cost?'
Yes, I'd never have gone away anywhere.
'Yes, very pleasant,' answered Olenin.
But I should like to join an expedition,' Lukashka repeated.
'Eh, humbug!' thought Lukashka.
He was as delighted as a boy, and could not refrain from telling Vanyusha not only that he had given Lukashka the horse, but also why he had done it, as well as his new theory of happiness.
Chapter twenty two
'Will you come and be my drabant?' (A drabant was a kind of orderly attached to an officer when campaigning.) 'I'll get it arranged and will give you a horse,' said Olenin suddenly.
She therefore told the deaf girl to take it to the herd before daybreak.
'By the middle one.
Olenin looked out of the window to see what he would do.
The old woman only shook her head at her son's story, and decided in her own mind that he had stolen it.
That's why the marriage does not come off.'
Lukashka was the first to break the silence.
But despite their fears his action aroused in them a great respect for his simplicity and wealth.
This is something unexpected, undreamt of.'
In your place I'd do nothing but make merry!
Do you find it pleasant living among us?'
But still, I like the horses here best.'
I bought it in Groznoe; it gallops splendidly!
Though we are not rich people still we can treat a kunak, and I will tell mother in case you need anything-clotted cream or grapes-and if you come to the cordon I'm your servant to go hunting or to go across the river, anywhere you like!
We shall see what will come of this cadet.
Olenin laughed.
He's rich! ...'
'Aren't you in the regular service?'
Vanyusha!
If you don't you will offend me.
'Couldn't I find a place to spend the night?' laughed Lukashka. 'But the corporal asked me to go back.'
'Well, if you're not bragging about your home, if I were you I'd never have left it!
To some he said he had bought it, to others he replied evasively.
'Take it, take it!
'And what did you want to come here for?
'Haven't I got the horse and we'll see later on.
Bigger than ours?' asked Lukashka good naturedly.
But don't harness the horse, it has never been in harness.'
'I have a kunak, Girey Khan.
'Much bigger; ten times as big and three storeys high,' replied Olenin.
'Tie it up here.
'How-don't want it?' Lukashka said, laughing.
We'll have a talk and a drink and in the morning you can go back.'
How I want to!'
'Do you think I am afraid?
Go back, and thank you.
Our company is going before the holidays, and your "hundred" too.'
'Those cadets are crafty, awfully crafty,' said a third.
'How I want to!
It is about eight miles beyond that.'
It's getting dark.
He seemed to have understood all that Olenin wished to say to him, but to be above such considerations.
'But what a fine fellow to look at!' said the captain, again playing the commander.
'From there in the hills,' replied the scout, pointing to the misty bluish gorge beyond the Terek. 'Do you know Suuk su?
There they lifted out the corpse and (though the horse shied) laid it across one of the saddles, mounted, and rode at a foot pace along the road past a Tartar village from which a crowd came out to look at them.
The scout, standing up at one end of the skiff and dipping his paddle now on one side now on the other, steered skilfully while talking incessantly.
'Put on your cap.
Lukashka raised his head.
Don't our fellows get killed sometimes?'
On entering the mud hut he lit a cigarette.
Laughter and jokes were heard on all sides.
'Which of you is luke Gavrilov?' asked the captain.
The latter answered something and pointed to Lukashka.
Lukashka, vainly striving to impart a sedate expression to his merry face, sat down with his elbows on his knees beside Olenin and whittled away at a stick.
His face was very like that of the dead abrek.
He was evidently a brave who had met Russians more than once before in quite other circumstances, and nothing about them could astonish or even interest him.
You ask the corporal to give me leave.'
Olenin was so surprised at the Chechen not being interested in him that he could only put it down to the man's stupidity or ignorance of Russian; so he turned to the scout, who also acted as interpreter.
He was so full of hatred and contempt that there was nothing on this side of the river that moved his curiosity.
'A man kills another and is happy and satisfied with himself as if he had done something excellent.
The Cossack looked at Olenin with laughing eyes.
Saw him laid in the skiff and brought to the bank.
All this seemed ridiculous: it was as if these Cossacks were playing at being soldiers.
'Your godson won't rise, but the red one is the godson's brother!'
'Is it good?'
'I have reported your exploit to the Commander.
He sat there till the night and wished to kill the old man, but the others would not let him.'
'There were five brothers,' began the scout in his broken Russian. 'This is the third brother the Russians have killed, only two are left. He is a brave, a great brave!' he said, pointing to the Chechen. 'When they killed Ahmet Khan (the dead brave) this one was sitting on the opposite bank among the reeds.
Well, lend a hand, help them,' he said, turning to the Cossacks.
Can it be that nothing tells him that it is not a reason for any rejoicing, and that happiness lies not in killing, but in sacrificing oneself?'
The Cossacks received him coldly.
The red sun appeared for an instant from under a cloud and its last rays glittered brightly along the river over the reeds, on the watch tower, and on a group of Cossacks, among whom Lukashka's vigorous figure attracted Olenin's involuntary attention.
He moved away from the corporal, and having put on his cap sat down beside Olenin.
'He is my kunak.'
I don't know what will come of it.
The corporal replied that all was well at the outposts.
The Cossacks involuntarily stepped aside to let him pass.
The dead man's brother, tall and well shaped with a short cropped beard which was dyed red, despite his very tattered coat and cap was calm and majestic as a king.
Which of the Gavrilovs does he come of? ... the Broad, eh?'
He heard Russian being spoken, and also heard the rapid smooth flow of the Terek, and a few steps farther in front of him saw the brown moving surface of the river, with the dim coloured wet sand of its banks and shallows, the distant steppe, the cordon watch tower outlined above the water, a saddled and hobbled horse among the brambles, and then the mountains opening out before him.
But these formalities soon gave place to ordinary ways of behaviour, and the captain, who was a smart Cossack just like the others, began speaking fluently in Tartar to the interpreter.
The captain-one of the new type of Cossack officers-wished the Cossacks 'Good health,' but no one shouted in reply, 'Hail!
Lukashka went up to the speaker, and sat down.
The dead man's brother sat motionless, gazing at the opposite bank.
When the body had been carried to the skiff the brother Chechen descended to the bank.
He saw it all.
'He is my neighbour,' answered the scout.
Olenin felt that he was again, without any apparent cause, perfectly happy.
He remembered Maryanka and the kiss he had heard by the gate, and he was sorry for Lukashka and his want of culture.
The scout willingly entered into conversation and asked for a cigarette.
The scout was as ragged as the other, but instead of being red haired he was black haired, restless, with extremely white gleaming teeth and sparkling black eyes.
'Well, that happens too!
How will you get back alone?
He began to speak to him, asking from what village he came, but the Chechen, scarcely giving him a glance, spat contemptuously and turned away.
'He's a trump!' and Lukashka, evidently much interested, began talking to the scout in Tartar.
I'll take you, if you like.
Olenin was about to approach the dead body and had begun to look at it when the brother, looking up at him from under his brows with calm contempt, said something sharply and angrily.
It's always the same,' replied the scout, evidently inventing, and he smiled, showing his white teeth, as he jumped into the skiff.
Some, and among them Lukashka, rose and stood erect.
Then they approached the body.
The Cossacks paid little attention to him, first because he was smoking a cigarette, and secondly because they had something else to divert them that evening.
'What are you glad about?' asked Olenin. 'Supposing your brother had been killed; would you be glad?'
Can you read?'
The scout hastened to cover the dead man's face with his coat.
'Why do you smoke?' he said with assumed curiosity.
'I can't.'
Good health to your honour,' as is customary in the Russian Army, and only a few replied with a bow.
Look there now, the mountains are not far off,' continued Lukashka, 'yet you can't get there!
'My godson?' said Lukashka, meaning by that word the dead Chechen.
'It's just a habit,' answered Olenin. 'Why?'
He jumped into the boat and pushed off from the bank with his powerful leg, and now, as Olenin noticed, for the first time threw a rapid glance at all the Cossacks and then abruptly asked his companion a question.
He again made some remark.
'His nephew,' replied the corporal.
The Cossacks on the Russian side of the river were highly satisfied and jovial.
He evidently spoke because he noticed Olenin felt ill at ease and isolated among the Cossacks.
Some hostile Chechens, relatives of the abrek who had been killed, had come from the hills with a scout to ransom the body; and the Cossacks were waiting for their Commanding Officer's arrival from the village.
That look expressed not hatred but cold contempt.
He accosted the Cossacks, but not finding as yet any excuse for doing anyone a kindness, he entered the hut; nor in the hut did he find any such opportunity.
Presently a Cossack captain, with the head of the village, arrived on horseback with a suite of two Cossacks.
'Well, you had better not meet him again now, mate!' said one of the Cossacks who had seen the skiff off, addressing Lukashka. 'Did you hear him asking about you?'
The Chechen looked at him and, turning slowly away, gazed at the opposite bank.
'What confusion it is,' he thought.
The captain and the head of the village entered the mud hut to regale themselves.
The skiff became smaller and smaller as it moved obliquely across the stream, the voices became scarcely audible, and at last, still within sight, they landed on the opposite bank where their horses stood waiting.
He made his way out of the thicket.
It had grown cooler and the place seemed to him quite strange and not like the country round the village.
Some large birds circled screeching round their nests in those trees.
He examined the dark foliage around him, the place marked by the stag's perspiration and yesterday's dung, the imprint of the stag's knees, the bit of black earth it had kicked up, and his own footprints of the day before.
That is evident.
These myriads of insects were so well suited to that monstrously lavish wild vegetation, these multitudes of birds and beasts which filled the forest, this dark foliage, this hot scented air, these runlets filled with turbid water which everywhere soaked through from the Terek and gurgled here and there under the overhanging leaves, that the very thing which had at first seemed to him dreadful and intolerable now seemed pleasant.
When he had come out into the glade he looked around him; the sun was no longer visible above the tree tops.
The sun stood right above the forest and poured its perpendicular rays down on his back and head whenever he came out into a glade or onto the road.
He grew frightened.
'And is it worth while living for oneself,' thought he, 'when at any moment you may die, and die without having done any good, and so that no one will know of it?' He went in the direction where he fancied the village lay.
'Just as they, just as Daddy Eroshka, I shall live awhile and die, and as he says truly:
His dog had turned from black to grey, its back being covered with mosquitoes, and so had Olenin's coat through which the insects thrust their stings.
'Since one wants nothing for oneself,' he kept thinking, 'why not live for others?' He took up his gun with the intention of returning home quickly to think this out and to find an opportunity of doing good.
The day was perfectly clear, calm, and hot.
Having found the traces of yesterday's stag he crept under a bush into the thicket just where the stag had lain, and lay down in its lair.
He remembered the abreks and the murders he had been told about, and he expected every moment that an abrek would spring from behind every bush and he would have to defend his life and die, or be a coward.
Of his shooting he had no further thought; but he felt tired to death and peered round at every bush and tree with particular attention and almost with terror, expecting every moment to be called to account for his life.
But despite the dog's company everything around him seemed still more dreary.
'Still I must live and be happy, because happiness is all I desire.
'How much I exacted for myself; how I schemed and did not manage to gain anything but shame and sorrow!
He even felt that without this mosquito filled atmosphere around him, and that mosquito paste mingled with perspiration which his hand smeared over his face, and that unceasing irritation all over his body, the forest would lose for him some of its character and charm.
Never mind what I am-an animal like all the rest, above whom the grass will grow and nothing more; or a frame in which a bit of the one God has been set,--still I must live in the very best way.
The forest grew darker and the wind grew stronger and stronger in the tops of the broken old trees.
Love, self sacrifice.' He was so glad and excited when he had discovered this, as it seemed to him, new truth, that he jumped up and began impatiently seeking some one to sacrifice himself for, to do good to and to love.
He was about to go home, but remembering that other people managed to endure such pain he resolved to bear it and gave himself up to be devoured.
Here I sit, and around me stand old and young trees, one of them festooned with wild grape vines, and pheasants are fluttering, driving one another about and perhaps scenting their murdered brothers.' He felt his pheasants, examined them, and wiped the warm blood off his hand onto his coat.
'Happiness is this!' he said to himself.
The desire for happiness is innate in every man; therefore it is legitimate.
What are they?
He had hardly stepped among the briers when the pheasants began to rise at every step (the old man had not shown him that place the day before as he meant to keep it for shooting from behind the screen).
The next day Olenin went alone to the spot where he and the old man startled the stag.
and, there now, I require nothing to be happy;' and suddenly a new light seemed to reveal itself to him.
'Why am I happy, and what used I to live for?' thought he.
The morning moisture had dried up even in the forest, and myriads of mosquitoes literally covered his face, his back, and his arms.
But what desires can always be satisfied despite external circumstances?
Altogether his spirits became gloomy.
Olenin was ready to run away from them and it seemed to him that it was impossible to live in this country in the summer.
Everything seemed changed-the weather and the character of the forest; the sky was wrapped in clouds, the wind was rustling in the tree tops, and all around nothing was visible but reeds and dying broken down trees.
The vegetation grew poorer and he came oftener and oftener upon rustling reeds and bare sandy spaces covered with animal footprints.
Chapter twenty
'But what though the grass does grow?' he continued thinking.
He called off his dog, uncocked his gun, put in a bullet above the small shot, and brushing away the mosquitoes with the wide sleeve of his Circassian coat he went slowly to the spot where they had been the day before.
He felt cool and comfortable and did not think of or wish for anything.
Here's some one we can eat!' They buzzed and stuck to him.
He thought of God and of the future life as for long he had not thought about them.
Putting his hand behind him he felt his pheasants, and found one missing.
After having wandered about for a considerable time he came upon a ditch down which was flowing cold sandy water from the Terek, and, not to go astray any longer, he decided to follow it. He went on without knowing where the ditch would lead him.
And strange to say, by noontime the feeling became actually pleasant.
It had broken off and was lost, and only the bleeding head and beak remained sticking in his belt.
He called to his dog who had run away to follow some animal, and his voice came back as in a desert.
He shuddered and seized his gun, and then felt ashamed of himself: the over excited dog, panting hard, had thrown itself into the cold water of the ditch and was lapping it!
He felt more frightened than he had ever done before.
Suddenly the reeds behind him crackled.
After going round the place where yesterday they had found the animal and not finding anything, he felt inclined to rest.
And he looked round at the foliage with the light shining through it, at the setting sun and the clear sky, and he felt just as happy as before.
How then must I live to be happy, and why was I not happy before?' And he began to recall his former life and he felt disgusted with himself.
He appeared to himself to have been terribly exacting and selfish, though he now saw that all the while he really needed nothing for himself.
When trying to satisfy it selfishly-that is, by seeking for oneself riches, fame, comforts, or love-it may happen that circumstances arise which make it impossible to satisfy these desires. It follows that it is these desires that are illegitimate, but not the need for happiness.
He too had a drink, and then followed the dog in the direction it wished to go, thinking it would lead him to the village.
As to the second supposed advantage, there is still greater reason to entertain doubts concerning it.
The actual conduct of foreign negotiations, the preparatory plans of finance, the application and disbursement of the public moneys in conformity to the general appropriations of the legislature, the arrangement of the army and navy, the directions of the operations of war-these, and other matters of a like nature, constitute what seems to be most properly understood by the administration of government.
Unless the exclusion be perpetual, there will be no pretense to infer the first advantage.
With a positive duration of considerable extent, I connect the circumstance of re eligibility.
The contrary is the usual course of things.
A fourth ill effect of the exclusion would be the banishing men from stations in which, in certain emergencies of the state, their presence might be of the greatest moment to the public interest or safety.
Without supposing the personal essentiality of the man, it is evident that a change of the chief magistrate, at the breaking out of a war, or at any similar crisis, for another, even of equal merit, would at all times be detrimental to the community, inasmuch as it would substitute inexperience to experience, and would tend to unhinge and set afloat the already settled train of the administration.
Another ill effect of the exclusion would be the temptation to sordid views, to peculation, and, in some instances, to usurpation.
wednesday march nineteenth seventeen eighty eight.
These are some of the disadvantages which would flow from the principle of exclusion.
A fifth ill effect of the exclusion would be, that it would operate as a constitutional interdiction of stability in the administration.
To the People of the State of New York:
This exclusion, whether temporary or perpetual, would have nearly the same effects, and these effects would be for the most part rather pernicious than salutary.
And we need not be apprehensive that there will be too much stability, while there is even the option of changing; nor need we desire to prohibit the people from continuing their confidence where they think it may be safely placed, and where, by constancy on their part, they may obviate the fatal inconveniences of fluctuating councils and a variable policy.
Nothing appears more plausible at first sight, nor more ill founded upon close inspection, than a scheme which in relation to the present point has had some respectable advocates-I mean that of continuing the chief magistrate in office for a certain time, and then excluding him from it, either for a limited period or forever after.
There are few men who would not feel much less zeal in the discharge of a duty when they were conscious that the advantages of the station with which it was connected must be relinquished at a determinate period, than when they were permitted to entertain a hope of obtaining, by meriting, a continuance of them.
The process of election affords a moral certainty, that the office of President will never fall to the lot of any man who is not in an eminent degree endowed with the requisite qualifications.
The choice of SEVERAL, to form an intermediate body of electors, will be much less apt to convulse the community with any extraordinary or violent movements, than the choice of ONE who was himself to be the final object of the public wishes.
How could they better gratify this, than by raising a creature of their own to the chief magistracy of the Union?
The Vice President is to be chosen in the same manner with the President; with this difference, that the Senate is to do, in respect to the former, what is to be done by the House of Representatives, in respect to the latter.
It is remarkable that in this, as in most other instances, the objection which is made would lie against the constitution of this State.
It has been alleged, that it would have been preferable to have authorized the Senate to elect out of their own body an officer answering that description.
The appointment of an extraordinary person, as Vice President, has been objected to as superfluous, if not mischievous.
From The Independent Journal.
No senator, representative, or other person holding a place of trust or profit under the United States, can be of the numbers of the electors.
But two considerations seem to justify the ideas of the convention in this respect.
It was equally desirable, that the immediate election should be made by men most capable of analyzing the qualities adapted to the station, and acting under circumstances favorable to deliberation, and to a judicious combination of all the reasons and inducements which were proper to govern their choice.
It was desirable that the sense of the people should operate in the choice of the person to whom so important a trust was to be confided. This end will be answered by committing the right of making it, not to any preestablished body, but to men chosen by the people for the special purpose, and at the particular conjuncture.
These most deadly adversaries of republican government might naturally have been expected to make their approaches from more than one quarter, but chiefly from the desire in foreign powers to gain an improper ascendant in our councils.
They have not made the appointment of the President to depend on any preexisting bodies of men, who might be tampered with beforehand to prostitute their votes; but they have referred it in the first instance to an immediate act of the people of America, to be exerted in the choice of persons for the temporary and sole purpose of making the appointment.
But as a majority of the votes might not always happen to centre in one man, and as it might be unsafe to permit less than a majority to be conclusive, it is provided that, in such a contingency, the House of Representatives shall select out of the candidates who shall have the five highest number of votes, the man who in their opinion may be best qualified for the office.
"For forms of government let fools contest-That which is best administered is best,"--yet we may safely pronounce, that the true test of a good government is its aptitude and tendency to produce a good administration.
Though we cannot acquiesce in the political heresy of the poet who says:
But the precautions which have been so happily concerted in the system under consideration, promise an effectual security against this mischief.
THE mode of appointment of the Chief Magistrate of the United States is almost the only part of the system, of any consequence, which has escaped without severe censure, or which has received the slightest mark of approbation from its opponents.
A small number of persons, selected by their fellow citizens from the general mass, will be most likely to possess the information and discernment requisite to such complicated investigations.
Nor would it be found easy suddenly to embark them, dispersed as they would be over thirteen States, in any combinations founded upon motives, which though they could not properly be denominated corrupt, might yet be of a nature to mislead them from their duty.
Nothing was more to be desired than that every practicable obstacle should be opposed to cabal, intrigue, and corruption.
But the convention have guarded against all danger of this sort, with the most provident and judicious attention.
wednesday march twelfth seventeen eighty eight.
It will not be too strong to say, that there will be a constant probability of seeing the station filled by characters pre-eminent for ability and virtue.
To the People of the State of New York:
And as the electors, chosen in each State, are to assemble and vote in the State in which they are chosen, this detached and divided situation will expose them much less to heats and ferments, which might be communicated from them to the people, than if they were all to be convened at one time, in one place.
Their transient existence, and their detached situation, already taken notice of, afford a satisfactory prospect of their continuing so, to the conclusion of it.
And they have excluded from eligibility to this trust, all those who from situation might be suspected of too great devotion to the President in office.
And to take the senator of any State from his seat as senator, to place him in that of President of the Senate, would be to exchange, in regard to the State from which he came, a constant for a contingent vote.
From the New York Packet.
To the People of the State of New York:
He might, then, hazard with safety, in proportion to the proofs he had given of his wisdom and integrity, and to the title he had acquired to the respect and attachment of his fellow citizens.
This has relation to two objects: to the personal firmness of the executive magistrate, in the employment of his constitutional powers; and to the stability of the system of administration which may have been adopted under his auspices.
The first comports with, the last violates, the fundamental principles of good government; and, whatever may be the forms of the Constitution, unites all power in the same hands.
In governments purely republican, this tendency is almost irresistible.
In either case, feebleness and irresolution must be the characteristics of the station.
Another answer, perhaps more obvious, though not more conclusive, will result from the consideration of the influence of the legislative body over the people; which might be employed to prevent the re-election of a man who, by an upright resistance to any sinister project of that body, should have made himself obnoxious to its resentment.
It is one thing to be subordinate to the laws, and another to be dependent on the legislative body.
This remark is not less applicable to a political privilege, or honor, or trust, than to any article of ordinary property.
The representatives of the people, in a popular assembly, seem sometimes to fancy that they are the people themselves, and betray strong symptoms of impatience and disgust at the least sign of opposition from any other quarter; as if the exercise of its rights, by either the executive or judiciary, were a breach of their privilege and an outrage to their dignity.
It is a just observation, that the people commonly INTEND the PUBLIC GOOD.
Blisters on the hands are eloquent of the nervous clutch of the wavering rider.
three
The die is cast.
But real literature, as distinguished from anecdote, does not concern itself with superficial appearances alone.
He had indeed been bumped and battered at an extraordinary number of points.
For more information, or to volunteer, please visit librivox dot org.
So, I say, he would have presented himself to your superficial observation.
You try at least to walk your machine in an easy manner, and whack!--you are rubbing your shin.
Even in literature one must know where to draw the line.
Now if you had noticed anything about him, it would have been chiefly to notice how little he was noticeable.
And our first examination of the draper reveals beneath his draperies-the man!
Let us assume something of the scientific spirit, the hard, almost professorial tone of the conscientious realist.
You mind just a few little things like that, Hoopdriver, and nothing much can't happen to you-you take my word."
At other times Hoopdriver might have further resented the satirical efforts of the apprentice, but his mind was too full of the projected Tour to admit any petty delicacies of dignity.
Literature is revelation. Modern literature is indecorous revelation.
Proceeding up the left leg in a spiral manner, an unnatural hardness and redness would have been discovered on the upper aspect of the calf, and above the knee and on the inner side, an extraordinary expanse of bruised surface, a kind of closely stippled shading of contused points.
Hoopdriver pulls at his skimpy moustache.
"Well, all I hope, mr Hoopdriver, is that you'll get fine weather," said Miss Howe.
"Good night, old man."
"I'm getting fairly safe upon it now," he told Miss Howe.
On the internal aspect of the right ankle of this young man you would have observed, ladies and gentlemen, a contusion and an abrasion; on the internal aspect of the left ankle a contusion also; on its external aspect a large yellowish bruise.
"Any particular time when you want your holidays?" he asks.
And the thing that you would not have seen about this young man, and the thing of the greatest moment to this story, the thing that must be told if the book is to be written, was-let us face it bravely-the Remarkable Condition of this Young Man's Legs.
Under which happier circumstances you might-if of an observing turn of mind and not too much of a housewife to be inhuman-have given the central figure of this story less cursory attention.
The apprentice becomes extremely active.
The right leg would be found to be bruised in a marvellous manner all about and under the knee, and particularly on the interior aspect of the knee.
You mind just a few little things like that-"
"Right you are!" said Hoopdriver.
Hoopdriver rode off into Dreamland on his machine, and was scarcely there before he was pitched back into the world of sense again.--Something-what was it?
He is naturally of a sanguine disposition.
One large bruise on the shin is even more characteristic of the 'prentice cyclist, for upon every one of them waits the jest of the unexpected treadle.
"You stow it," said mr Hoopdriver, looking hard and threateningly at the junior apprentice, and suddenly adding in a tone of bitter contempt,--"Jampot."
At supper that night, holiday talk held undisputed sway.
"Why, cycling, of course."
The shop walker brings up parallel to the counter.
It's fatal," a voice that came from round a fitful glow of light, was saying.
But enough of these revelations.
Let us approach the business with dispassionate explicitness.
Can he learn it in a week?
Never lose control of the machine, and always sound the bell on every possible opportunity.
Briggs had never been on a cycle in his life, but he felt Hoopdriver's inexperience and offered such advice as occurred to him.
Never let the machine buckle-there was a man killed only the other day through his wheel buckling-don't scorch, don't ride on the foot path, keep your own side of the road, and if you see a tramline, go round the corner at once, and hurry off into the next county-and always light up before dark.
He inclines rather to street fighting against revolutionaries-because then she could see him from the window.
"Have the machine thoroughly well oiled," said Briggs, "carry one or two lemons with you, don't tear yourself to death the first day, and sit upright.
One might fancy that he had been sitting with his nether extremities in some complicated machinery, a threshing machine, say, or one of those hay making furies.
That's the question. Otherwise Briggs will get next week, and he will have to wait until September-when the weather is often uncertain.
Along the South Coast."
The decision comes at last. "That'll do me very well," said mr Hoopdriver, terminating the pause.
"No-Don't want them too late, sir, of course."
It is the duty of the earnest author to tell you what you would not have seen-even at the cost of some blushes.
All drapers have to be, or else they could never have the faith they show in the beauty, washability, and unfading excellence of the goods they sell you.
"I'm going for a Cycling Tour.
Jerking them back to the present comes the puffy little shop walker, with a paper in his hand.
The central figure of our story is now going along behind the counter, a draper indeed, with your purchases in his arms, to the warehouse, where the various articles you have selected will presently be packed by the senior porter and sent to you.
All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
His face is eloquent of conflicting considerations.
"I am," said Hoopdriver as calmly as possible, pulling at the insufficient moustache.
And so to our revelation.
But to tell the truth, neither is thinking of the mechanical duties in hand.
So out of innocence we ripen.
Thus even in a shop assistant does the warmth of manhood assert itself, and drive him against all the conditions of his calling, against the counsels of prudence and the restrictions of his means, to seek the wholesome delights of exertion and danger and pain.
The assistant is dreaming of the delicious time-only four hours off now-when he will resume the tale of his bruises and abrasions.
He was of a pallid complexion, hair of a kind of dirty fairness, greyish eyes, and a skimpy, immature moustache under his peaked indeterminate nose. His features were all small, but none ill shaped.
"Avoid running over dogs, Hoopdriver, whatever you do.
"And not come any nasty croppers."
Two bruises on that place mark a certain want of aptitude in learning, such as one might expect in a person unused to muscular exercise.
So far we may proceed with our details. Fired by these discoveries, an investigator might perhaps have pursued his inquiries further-to bruises on the shoulders, elbows, and even the finger joints, of the central figure of our story.
Then you descry dimly through the dusk the central figure of this story sitting by the roadside and rubbing his leg at some new place, and his friend, sympathetic (but by no means depressed), repairing the displacement of the handle bar.
"You're never going to ride that dreadful machine of yours, day after day?" said Miss Howe of the Costume Department.
Near him is an apprentice, apprenticed to the same high calling of draper's assistant, a ruddy, red haired lad in a very short tailless black coat and a very high collar, who is deliberately unfolding and refolding some patterns of cretonne.
This is a LibriVox recording.
The revelation is made.
To which initial fact (among others) we shall come again in the end.
"I?" said Hoopdriver when the question came to him.
"They're going fairly well, sir.
You mind those things, and nothing very much can't happen to you, Hoopdriver-you take my word."
He would lapse into silence for a minute, save perhaps for a curse or so at his pipe, and then break out with an entirely different set of tips.
She did not care to ask why.
You are tired, you know.
"But WHERE?"
twenty four.
Stunted oaks and thorns rose out of the haze of moonlight that was tangled in the hedge on either side.
And I wish him luck.
The ostler, sir, Jim Duke-"
He snapped his lamp and stood up.
It seemed at first as though everyone had gone to bed, but the Red Hotel still glowed yellow and warm.
So it was that in the space of an hour they came abruptly down a little lane, full tilt upon the sea.
"Poor chap!" said the barmaid.
"That was Chichester we were near?" she asked.
She came round obediently and took his machine, and for a moment they stood face to face.
"Are you tired?" he asked.
It seemed to Hoopdriver that he heard her sob.
He started up in a gusty frenzy with a vague idea of pursuit, and incontinently sat down again with a concussion that stirred the bar below to its depths.
This is nothing."
"Beg pardon, sir," said Stephen, with a diplomatic cough.
Interlude of conversational eyebrows.
"I suppose you won't take anything,--Jessie?"
Had a policeman intervened because their lamps were not lit, Hoopdriver had cut him down and ridden on, after the fashion of a hero born.
They dismounted abruptly.
"We have turned and turned again."
Then he returned panting to the Vicuna Hotel, and finding a group of men outside the entrance, who wanted to know what was UP, stopped to give them the cream of the adventure.
There were also moral remarks and other irrelevant contributions.
She stood dimly there, holding her machine, and he, holding his, could go no nearer to her to see if she sobbed for weeping or for want of breath.
Who would be Hoopdriver on a night like this?
"I will do anything," said Hoopdriver.
"JESSIE," he repeated slowly.
"What are we to do now?" her voice asked.
"I am entirely at your service.
Down the passage to the bedroom.
I wanted to come out into the world, to be a human being-not a thing in a hutch.
"Let 'em GO.
Stephen was too surprised to say anything but "Bourbon, sir?"
He bent down to his own, and struck a match on his shoe.
"Brown clothes?" he said.
"Quite a misunderstanding," said Hoopdriver, with splendid readiness. "My sister had gone to Bognor But I brought her back here.
But compared with Bechamel!--"We take each other on trust," she said.
"Do you think they will follow us?"
"WELL?"
At the turnings of the road he made his decisions with an air of profound promptitude (and quite haphazard).
"Good night, Sis," he said, "and pleasant dreams.
"You cannot imagine my stepmother.
"My name, brother Chris," she said, "is Jessie."
"It's an ugly name," he said.
So gallantly did mr Hoopdriver comport himself up to the very edge of the Most Wonderful Day of all.
"I'll chuck this infernal business!
They scarcely heeded whither they rode at first, being only anxious to get away, turning once westward when the spire of Chichester cathedral rose suddenly near them out of the dewy night, pale and intricate and high.
"She went, sir, with Another Gentleman."
Who cares?
He was taken with a sudden shame of his homely patronymic.
He looked sideways at her as she sat beside him with her ankles gracefully ruling the treadles.
"Do you know," she said, "I am not afraid of you.
I was unhappy at home-never mind why.
I could not describe her-"
twenty five.
"SAFE."
But he carried it off splendidly, as he felt himself bound to admit.
It has created the fairies, whom the sunlight kills, and fairyland rises again in our hearts at the sight of it, the voices of the filmy route, and their faint, soul piercing melodies.
"Gone, sir.
"I have lost an Illusion and found a Knight errant." She spoke of Bechamel as the Illusion.
She was a monomaniac.
There is a magic quality in moonshine; it touches all that is sweet and beautiful, and the rest of the night is hidden.
"Go on," said Bechamel.
And the moonlight's simply dee vine."
She caught at her breath.
"That man," she went on, after the assent of his listening silence, "promised to help and protect me.
That made ten minutes.
Nowhere was the moon shining quite so brightly as in mr Hoopdriver's skull.
He flung himself into the armchair.
She took a minute to answer.
"It wasn't that one at all, miss," said the ostler, "I'd SWEAR"
"mrs Beaumont," said Stephen.
The glory of having her, even as a sister! and to call her Jessie like that!
"On her bicycle!
"Damn her," said Bechamel, for all the world like a common man.
After a pause Bechamel went back to the dining room.
Stephen's sympathies changed at once.
His feet stopped.
She looked down at him, almost kneeling in front of her, with an unreasonable approbation in her eyes.
It had begun early, you will remember, with a vigil in a little sweetstuff shop next door to the Angel at Midhurst.
"A little like yourself, sir-in the dark.
And so the twenty minutes' law passed into an infinity.
Bechamel's face suggested a different expectation.
Went into the yard, sir, got out the two bicycles, sir, and went off, sir-about twenty minutes ago."
mr Hoopdriver felt flattered.
And in silence under her benign influence, under the benediction of her light, rode our two wanderers side by side through the transfigured and transfiguring night.
Then, with infinite fervour, he said-But let us put in blank cartridge-he said, "------!"
The two black figures in the broken light were silent for a space.
How their hearts beat together and their breath came fast, and how every shadow was anticipation and every noise pursuit!
But as yet he seemed merely stunned.
Well-Chris."
There were conflicting ideas of telling the police and pursuing the flying couple on a horse.
"But you must tell me your name-brother," she said,
twenty three.
"Another gentleman in brown, sir.
"I'm going up," said Stephen, "to break the melancholy news to him."
And he-"
If so, he was in for an explanation.
"Leave me alone with her," he would say; "I know how to calm her."
He looked into her eyes, and his excitement seemed arrested.
Why?"
MY Christian name.
"Has gone."
In which case the business might be hushed up yet, and the evil hour of explanation with his wife indefinitely postponed.
They heard a chair creak under him.
How could she ever have thought him common or absurd?
The road turned northward, going round through the outskirts of Bognor, in one place dark and heavy under a thick growth of trees, then amidst villas again, some warm and lamplit, some white and sleeping in the moonlight; then between hedges, over which they saw broad wan meadows shrouded in a low lying mist.
He banged the arms of the chair with his fist, and swore again.
"But the Christian name?"
Turned.
And we can't wander all night-after the day we've had."
Bechamel stood with his eyes round and his knuckle on his hips.
The ostler (being a fool) rushed violently down the road vociferating after them.
Bechamel looked up from a week old newspaper as, without knocking, Stephen entered.
And his only ray of hope was that it seemed more probable, after all, that the girl had escaped through her stepmother.
I've took a fancy to this place.
"Well, that's mr Beaumont," said the barmaid, "--anyhow."
"But you are right in trusting me.
"We've had supper, thenks, and we're tired," said mr Hoopdriver.
"And fairish?"
"I know," said Hoopdriver.
"I might have thought!"
Their conversation hung comatose in the air, switched up by Bechamel. They listened together.
"Christian name?
"Yes?"
And I do not even know your name!"
"The Right," he would say. Or again "The Left," as one who knew.
The mute emotion of his face affected her strangely. She had to speak.
She thought.
How they rode!
But what light is there lighting a face like hers, to compare with the soft glamour of the midsummer moon?
But he had no adequate answer.
I will help you with all my power."
On her bicycle."
"We could stop there together-"
They rode, speaking little, just a rare word now and then, at a turning, at a footfall, at a roughness in the road.
he told himself.
He opened his mouth and shut it again, and, with a sudden wincing of his features, abruptly turned and bent down to open the lantern in front of her machine.
That gave the fugitives five minutes.
And she by the side of him!
He had seen her face in shadow, with the morning sunlight tangled in her hair, he had seen her sympathetic with that warm light in her face, he had seen her troubled and her eyes bright with tears.
But he had it ready.
"Do you want to know-how things are with me?"
"Gone!" he said with a half laugh.
For all that flight mr Hoopdriver was in the world of Romance.
"Well?" said Bechamel, wondering suddenly if Jessie had kept some of her threats.
Stopped again.
Now the road turned westward, and she was a dark grey outline against the shimmer of the moon; and now they faced northwards, and the soft cold light passed caressingly over her hair and touched her brow and cheek.
"Where are we?"
"Chichester Harbour." He waved his arm seaward as though it was a goal.
"I will do what has to be done."
A stepmother-Idle, unoccupied, hindered, cramped, that is enough, perhaps.
THE MOONLIGHT RIDE
Overhead, riding serenely through the spacious blue, is the mother of the silence, she who has spiritualised the world, alone save for two attendant steady shining stars.
The thing was about the size of a Shetland pony, but its head bore a slight resemblance to that of a frog, except that the jaws were equipped with three rows of long, sharp tusks.
Again locking his arm in mine, we had proceeded into the audience chamber.
On the platform proper squatted an enormous warrior heavily loaded with metal ornaments, gay colored feathers and beautifully wrought leather trappings ingeniously set with precious stones.
Only about one Martian in a thousand dies of sickness or disease, and possibly about twenty take the voluntary pilgrimage.
There were few formalities observed in approaching the Martian chieftain.
It waddled in on its ten short legs, and squatted down before the girl like an obedient puppy.
Her name, as I afterward learned, was Sola, and she belonged to the retinue of Tars Tarkas.
She conducted me to a spacious chamber in one of the buildings fronting on the plaza, and which, from the litter of silks and furs upon the floor, I took to be the sleeping quarters of several of the natives.
He evidently explained briefly the incidents connected with his expedition, including my capture, and when he had concluded the chieftain addressed me at some length.
On the floor of this chamber, which was dotted with highly carved wooden desks and chairs, were assembled about forty or fifty male Martians around the steps of a rostrum.
I did not recognize the applause as such, but later, when I had become acquainted with their customs, I learned that I had won what they seldom accord, a manifestation of approbation.
As he sunk to the floor I wheeled around with my back toward the nearest desk, expecting to be overwhelmed by the vengeance of his fellows, but determined to give them as good a battle as the unequal odds would permit before I gave up my life.
I did not, of course, know the reason for which we had come to the open, but I was not long in being enlightened.
Tars Tarkas and the chief exchanged a few words, and the former, calling to a young female among the throng, gave her some instructions and motioned me to accompany her.
The principal chieftain then evidently signified a desire to see me perform, and, motioning me to follow, he started with Tars Tarkas for the open plaza.
Toward the center of the city was a large plaza, and upon this and in the buildings immediately surrounding it were camped some nine or ten hundred creatures of the same breed as my captors, for such I now considered them despite the suave manner in which I had been trapped.
From his shoulders depended a short cape of white fur lined with brilliant scarlet silk.
Their bodies were smaller and lighter in color, and their fingers and toes bore the rudiments of nails, which were entirely lacking among the males.
Our party had halted at the entrance to the building, and at a sign from the leader I had been lowered to the ground.
But I was to learn that the Martian smile is merely perfunctory, and that the Martian laugh is a thing to cause strong men to blanch in horror.
My fair companion was about eight feet tall, having just arrived at maturity, but not yet to her full height.
CHAPTER four
The other nine hundred and seventy nine die violent deaths in duels, in hunting, in aviation and in war; but perhaps by far the greatest death loss comes during the age of childhood, when vast numbers of the little Martians fall victims to the great white apes of Mars.
As we neared the plaza and my presence was discovered we were immediately surrounded by hundreds of the creatures who seemed anxious to pluck me from my seat behind my guard.
My fears were groundless, however, as the other Martians, at first struck dumb with wonderment, finally broke into wild peals of laughter and applause.
It was constructed of gleaming white marble inlaid with gold and brilliant stones which sparkled and scintillated in the sunlight.
The main entrance was some hundred feet in width and projected from the building proper to form a huge canopy above the entrance hall.
At the time, this ceremony and the words they uttered meant nothing to me, but later I came to know that this was the customary greeting between green Martians.
We had gone perhaps ten miles when the ground began to rise very rapidly.
This fact, and the similar occurrence during my first talk with Tars Tarkas, convinced me that we had at least something in common; the ability to smile, therefore to laugh; denoting a sense of humor.
My captor, whose name was Tars Tarkas, was virtually the vice chieftain of the community, and a man of great ability as a statesman and warrior.
Had the men been strangers, and therefore unable to exchange names, they would have silently exchanged ornaments, had their missions been peaceful-otherwise they would have exchanged shots, or have fought out their introduction with some other of their various weapons.
The fellow whom I had struck lay where he had fallen, nor did any of his mates approach him.
The building was low, but covered an enormous area.
With the exception of their ornaments all were naked.
A word from the leader of the party stilled their clamor, and we proceeded at a trot across the plaza to the entrance of as magnificent an edifice as mortal eye has rested upon.
In response to her call I obtained my first sight of a new Martian wonder.
We were, as I was later to learn, nearing the edge of one of Mars' long dead seas, in the bottom of which my encounter with the Martians had taken place.
Sola motioned me to be seated upon a pile of silks near the center of the room, and, turning, made a peculiar hissing sound, as though signaling to someone in an adjoining room.
My captor merely strode up to the rostrum, the others making way for him as he advanced.
The chieftain rose to his feet and uttered the name of my escort who, in turn, halted and repeated the name of the ruler followed by his title.
The adult females ranged in height from ten to twelve feet.
Upon closer observation I saw as we passed them that the buildings were deserted, and while not greatly decayed had the appearance of not having been tenanted for years, possibly for ages.
I replied in our good old English tongue merely to convince him that neither of us could understand the other; but I noticed that when I smiled slightly on concluding, he did likewise.
She was of a light olive green color, with a smooth, glossy hide.
The death agonies of a fellow being are, to these strange creatures, provocative of the wildest hilarity, while their chief form of commonest amusement is to inflict death on their prisoners of war in various ingenious and horrible ways.
The iris of the eyes is blood red, as in Albinos, while the pupil is dark.
No water, and no other vegetation than the moss was in evidence, and as I was somewhat thirsty I determined to do a little exploring.
Stretching my hand toward him, I advanced and took the armlet from his open palm, clasping it about my arm above the elbow; smiled at him and stood waiting.
Unarmed and naked as I was, the first law of nature manifested itself in the only possible solution of my immediate problem, and that was to get out of the vicinity of the point of the charging spear. Consequently I gave a very earthly and at the same time superhuman leap to reach the top of the Martian incubator, for such I had determined it must be.
Now commenced a series of evolutions which even then seemed ludicrous in the extreme.
They started toward us on a wild run, but were checked by a signal from him.
But the little sound caused me to turn, and there upon me, not ten feet from my breast, was the point of that huge spear, a spear forty feet long, tipped with gleaming metal, and held low at the side of a mounted replica of the little devils I had been watching.
The highest type of man and one other animal, the only mammal existing on Mars, alone have well formed nails, and there are absolutely no hoofed animals in existence there.
I knew that I was on Mars; not once did I question either my sanity or my wakefulness.
This is quite far enough to imbue me with great respect for the Martian firearm, and some telepathic force must have warned me against an attempt to escape in broad daylight from under the muzzles of twenty of these death dealing machines.
He was the one whose spear had so nearly transfixed me, and was evidently the leader of the band, as I had noted that they seemed to have moved to their present position at his direction.
Placing my hand over my heart I bowed low to the Martian and explained to him that while I did not understand his language, his actions spoke for the peace and friendship that at the present moment were most dear to my heart.
When they had covered perhaps two hundred yards they halted, and turning their mounts toward us sat watching the warrior by the enclosure.
Further, the heads of the adults are not so out of proportion to their bodies as in the case of the young.
Five or six had already hatched and the grotesque caricatures which sat blinking in the sunlight were enough to cause me to doubt my sanity. They seemed mostly head, with little scrawny bodies, long necks and six legs, or, as I afterward learned, two legs and two arms, with an intermediary pair of limbs which could be used at will either as arms or legs.
Evidently he feared that were I to be really frightened again I might jump entirely out of the landscape.
As the silence became painful I concluded to hazard a little conversation on my own part, as I had guessed that he was making overtures of peace.
He exchanged a few words with his men, motioned to me that I would ride behind one of them, and then mounted his own animal.
The roof of the enclosure was of solid glass about four or five inches in thickness, and beneath this were several hundred large eggs, perfectly round and snowy white.
There was no hair on their bodies, which were of a very light yellowish green color.
I opened my eyes upon a strange and weird landscape.
CHAPTER three
I found that I must learn to walk all over again, as the muscular exertion which carried me easily and safely upon Earth played strange antics with me upon Mars.
The eggs were nearly uniform in size being about two and one half feet in diameter.
The eyeball itself is very white, as are the teeth.
You do not question the fact; neither did i
Their eyes were set at the extreme sides of their heads a trifle above the center and protruded in such a manner that they could be directed either forward or back and also independently of each other, thus permitting this queer animal to look in any direction, or in two directions at once, without the necessity of turning the head.
Some were surveying me with expressions which I afterward discovered marked extreme astonishment, and the others were evidently satisfying themselves that I had not molested their young.
Here and there were slight outcroppings of quartz bearing rock which glistened in the sunlight; and a little to my left, perhaps a hundred yards, appeared a low, walled enclosure about four feet in height.
Of course I might have been a babbling brook for all the intelligence my speech carried to him, but he understood the action with which I immediately followed my words.
They were conversing together in low tones, and gesticulating and pointing toward me.
I seemed to be lying in a deep, circular basin, along the outer verge of which I could distinguish the irregularities of low hills.
In the adults, as I was to learn quite soon, this color deepens to an olive green and is darker in the male than in the female.
When his force had come to a halt he dismounted, threw down his spear and small arms, and came around the end of the incubator toward me, entirely unarmed and as naked as I, except for the ornaments strapped upon his head, limbs, and breast.
He sat his mount as we sit a horse, grasping the animal's barrel with his lower limbs, while the hands of his two right arms held his immense spear low at the side of his mount; his two left arms were outstretched laterally to help preserve his balance, the thing he rode having neither bridle or reins of any description for guidance.
I was not asleep, no need for pinching here; my inner consciousness told me as plainly that I was upon Mars as your conscious mind tells you that you are upon Earth.
I found myself lying prone upon a bed of yellowish, mosslike vegetation which stretched around me in all directions for interminable miles.
Its belly was white, and its legs shaded from the slate of its shoulders and hips to a vivid yellow at the feet.
My muscles, perfectly attuned and accustomed to the force of gravity on Earth, played the mischief with me in attempting for the first time to cope with the lesser gravitation and lower air pressure on Mars.
The metal of the barrel is an alloy composed principally of aluminum and steel which they have learned to temper to a hardness far exceeding that of the steel with which we are familiar.
Their noses were but longitudinal slits in the center of their faces, midway between their mouths and ears.
And his mount!
Springing to my feet I received my first Martian surprise, for the effort, which on Earth would have brought me standing upright, carried me into the Martian air to the height of about three yards.
Their discovery that I had not harmed the little Martians, and that I was unarmed, must have caused them to look upon me with less ferocity; but, as I was to learn later, the thing which weighed most in my favor was my exhibition of hurdling.
Most of these details I noted later, for I was given but little time to speculate on the wonders of my new discovery.
At the same time he motioned his followers to advance.
Against the dark background of their olive skins their tusks stand out in a most striking manner, making these weapons present a singularly formidable appearance.
Behind this first charging demon trailed nineteen others, similar in all respects, but, as I learned later, bearing individual characteristics peculiar to themselves; precisely as no two of us are identical although we are all cast in a similar mold.
How can earthly words describe it!
The throwing down of his weapons and the withdrawing of his troop before his advance toward me would have signified a peaceful mission anywhere on Earth, so why not, then, on Mars!
The theoretic effective radius of this rifle is three hundred miles, but the best they can do in actual service when equipped with their wireless finders and sighters is but a trifle over two hundred miles.
The feet themselves were heavily padded and nailless, which fact had also contributed to the noiselessness of their approach, and, in common with a multiplicity of legs, is a characteristic feature of the fauna of Mars.
These rifles were of a white metal stocked with wood, which I learned later was a very light and intensely hard growth much prized on Mars, and entirely unknown to us denizens of Earth.
It was midday, the sun was shining full upon me and the heat of it was rather intense upon my naked body, yet no greater than would have been true under similar conditions on an Arizona desert.
But how puny and harmless they now looked beside this huge and terrific incarnation of hate, of vengeance and of death.
I alighted upon the soft moss easily and without mishap, and turning saw my enemies lined up along the further wall.
Coming, as they did, over the soft and soundless moss, which covers practically the entire surface of Mars with the exception of the frozen areas at the poles and the scattered cultivated districts, they might have captured me easily, but their intentions were far more sinister. It was the rattling of the accouterments of the foremost warrior which warned me.
Instead of progressing in a sane and dignified manner, my attempts to walk resulted in a variety of hops which took me clear of the ground a couple of feet at each step and landed me sprawling upon my face or back at the end of each second or third hop.
MY ADVENT ON MARS
I did fairly well at this and in a few moments had reached the low, encircling wall of the enclosure.
My feat then was as marvelous upon Mars as it would have been upon Earth, and from desiring to annihilate me they suddenly looked upon me as a wonderful discovery to be captured and exhibited among their fellows.
On such a little thing my life hung that I often marvel that I escaped so easily.
They now sang with the utmost glee, and came out particularly strong on the chorus, which ran:
When the four classes assembled Thursday morning, every girl, with the exception of Eleanor, was in her seat.
"'Rally Round the Flag,'" suggested Miriam Nesbit.
"Glad to know that," said Grace.
"Where?" asked Nora, going to the door.
"There were so many different kinds of noises I couldn't distinguish it."
"I wonder whether she apologized to Miss Thompson last night," mused Grace.
Grace captured it, however, and sent it flying toward Miriam, who was so carefully guarded that she dared not attempt to make the basket, and after a feint managed to throw it to Nora, who tried for the basket at long range and missed.
"But, O girls, I am so proud of our invincible team.
If, during this time, any one of them should be reported for a misdemeanor, they were to be suspended without delay.
"It was," giggled Jessica.
"The boys' crack team couldn't have played a better game," he said solemnly, and the girls knew that he could pay them no higher compliment, for this team was considered invincible by the High School boys.
It was a great game and a well earned victory."
They must turn in two themes every week of not less than six hundred words on certain subjects to be assigned to them.
Perhaps they were afraid of being waylaid."
"Anyone can twist 'Annabel Lee' to suit the occasion."
The seniors did not intend to allow them to score again in a hurry.
"Thank goodness, none of us were concerned in that affair," she told the members of her basketball team at recess.
They were to forfeit their recess, library and all other privileges until the end of the term.
"The juniors forever, hurrah, fans, hurrah! Our team is a winner, our captain's a star. And we'll drive the senior foe, from the basket every time. Shouting the war cry of the juniors."
Hurrah! Our gallant team now takes its stand, And all the baskets soon will land. We shout, we sing, the praises of the seniors."
They played such a close guarding game that, try as they might, the juniors made no headway.
"Small credit is due me," said Anne, smiling.
Very softly, you may be sure," continued Jessica, "but it was hissing, just the same.
She and her satellites are sitting away up on the back seat of the gallery."
Up it went, the whistle sounded and the two captains sprang straight for it.
He was filled with profound admiration for them.
"Then we'll see that she goes away in a gloomy frame of mind," said Nora, "for we're going to win, and don't you forget to remember it."
"Come on.
"There are two girls on the sophomore and three on the freshman team whose basketball ardor will have to cool until after the mid year exams."
"I suppose they couldn't bear to see us win," said Grace.
"O girls!" exclaimed Eva Allen from the open door, in which she had been standing looking up at the gallery.
Julia Crosby and Grace took turns sprinting around the gymnasium three times in succession, while Miriam Nesbit timed them, Grace finishing just two seconds ahead of Julia.
It's a wonder she'd condescend to come and watch her mortal enemies play."
"Wasn't it nice of Miss Thompson to exonerate us publicly?" asked Anne.
"She can go to that, even though she is on bad terms with the school."
Their penalty was far from light, but they had not been suspended, and so they resolved to endure it as best they might.
After conducting opening exercises, Miss Thompson pronounced sentence on the culprits.
"That has a dandy swing to it."
Reddy says it's 'marvelously extraordinary and appallingly great.'"
They were sitting down front on the same side as Eleanor's crowd.
Let me see what would be a good tune?"
The spectators had not yet begun to arrive, as it was still early, so the girls indulged in a little warming up practice, did a few stunts and skipped about, overflowing with animal spirits.
Besides, she would have had both High Schools on her side.
She felt a personal grudge against Eleanor for her accusation against Mabel, who had grown very dear to her and whom she mothered like a hen with one chicken.
Even the boys like Miss Thompson."
Reddy circled about the victors almost too delighted for words.
"I can't understand how Eleanor could be so rude and disagreeable to her.
The juniors had all received copies of the words and had learned them by heart.
"Oh, yes, girls, I intended telling you before this," replied Jessica. "Just before the last half started, Miss Thompson and Miss Kane came in and walked to the other end of the gallery.
"What did ruth say to them?" asked Grace curiously.
"I feel it in my bones."
Here we are at Stillman's."
Hippy, David and Reddy have a new one, too.
This spurred the junior team on to greater effort, and Miriam made a brilliant throw to basket that brought forth an ovation from the gallery.
"That would fill her with joy."
"We ought to celebrate," said Miriam.
This ended the first half, with the score five to two in favor of the juniors.
"What a delicate way of reminding me that I once was a freshman!" she exclaimed.
She has disliked Miss Thompson from the first."
Grace and Julia Crosby faced each other, beamed amiably and shook hands, then stood vigilant, eyes on the ball that the referee balanced in her hands.
"I suppose she hopes we'll lose," said Marian Barber.
"The very thing," she exclaimed.
There was a burst of laughter from the girls at this effusion, in which Nora herself joined.
"Let's hope that your bones are true prophets," laughed Marian Barber.
"How absurd!" exclaimed Grace.
THE JUNIORS FOREVER
"I feel sure that she didn't, and I am just as sure that she won't get back until she does."
"I don't know about that," said Nora O'Malley.
"She told them that if they didn't stop it instantly, the juniors would pick them up bodily, carry them downstairs to the classroom and lock them in until the game was over."
Hardly had the last notes died away, when the referee blew the whistle and the teams hustled to their positions.
The junior fans howled joyfully at the good work of their team.
"She is always just," replied Grace.
Grace hummed a few bars.
There was a general scramble for the ball, and for five minutes neither team scored; then Marian Barber dropped a neat field goal, and soon after Grace scored on a foul.
"We shall win," said Miriam Nesbit confidently.
"Now, Anne, get busy at once.
"It was an effectual threat at any rate," said Jessica.
Grace Harlowe felt a load lifted from her mind when Miss Thompson publicly announced that she had not received any information from either Mabel Allison or the Phi Sigma Tau.
"She can spout poetry without trying."
"We shall manage to exist if she doesn't," said Jessica dryly.
"It must have been something remarkable, or they wouldn't have subsided so suddenly."
For a wonder, she didn't hear it, but every girl in the junior class did.
"Hard to tell," said Nora.
She looks as haughty as ever.
The recess bell cut short the conversation and the girls returned to their desks with far better ideas of the coming game than of the afternoon's lessons.
Just then the whistle blew, and there was a scramble for places.
"Eleanor is here.
By a quarter of two the gallery was fairly well filled and by five minutes of two it was crowded.
"They hissed Miss Thompson.
"They left before the game was over.
"Perhaps we'll challenge you some day, Reddy," said Grace mischievously.
"Oh, yes, I see her.
"The seniors are the real thing. Hurrah!
CHAPTER sixteen
"ruth Deane is a terror when she gets fairly started.
You know what a temper ruth Deane has and how ferocious she can look?
"By the way, Anne," said Grace, "as you are a poet, you must compose a basketball song to day, and I'll see that the juniors all have copies. It's time we had one.
There was a great clapping of hands from the admirers of the juniors at this effort, but the seniors promptly responded from the other end of the gallery to the tune of Dixie, with:
She talked for a moment to Edna and Eleanor.
They tossed their heads, but they didn't hiss any more."
"Your silence indicates that you are still insubordinate.
Her eyes wandered toward where Eleanor sat, looking bored and indifferent, and then she looked toward Grace, whose steady gray eyes were fixed on the principal's face with respectful attention.
"I hope you understand that I am not afraid of you or any other teacher in this school," she continued.
"Very well," continued Miss Thompson.
Mabel looked distressed for a moment then she said, "I wish I might tell you all about it, but I gave my word of honor before I read it that I wouldn't mention the contents to any one."
As for the persons who told you about our plan, words cannot express my contempt for them, and right here I accuse Grace Harlowe and her sorority of getting the information from Mabel Allison yesterday and carrying it to you.
"I can't bear to have secrets and not tell you."
On Wednesday, aside from a little more whispering and significant glances exchanged among the pupils, not a ripple disturbed the calm of the study hall.
"Do you intend to obey me, Miss Savell?" asked Miss Thompson.
"We shall understand each other a little better."
I will not tolerate such behavior."
The principal stood silently regarding them with an expression of severity that was decidedly discomfitting.
Miss Thompson has promised me the gymnasium.
Just then the bell sounded and the girls returned to their seats with the riddle still unsolved.
Miss Thompson paused and a number of girls stirred uneasily in their seats, while a few glanced quickly toward Eleanor, who was looking straight ahead, the picture of innocence.
I am going to put every girl on her honor, and I expect absolutely truthful answers.
The eyes of Grace and her chums turned questioningly toward Mabel Allison, who nodded slightly in the affirmative.
She could not forgive Eleanor for having accused her and her friends of carrying tales before almost the entire school; therefore a forced apology would not appease her wounded pride. She drew a breath of relief when the eight girls were safely outside the study hall door.
"We don't want you to tell.
Grace motioned the girls to hurry.
"Those girls who are not in any way implicated in this matter are dismissed," she said.
Even Mabel had refused to sign.
"This," she said, in a low tense voice, "is the paper you wish to see.
I do not choose to let you see it, therefore I shall destroy it."
A WOULD BE "LARK"
"Let's take turns talking," cried Grace, laughing.
"Here comes Mabel," said Jessica.
"Stop, Miss Savell," she commanded.
Miss Thompson had taken their names, but had not stated their punishment and it was certain that they would be made to feel the full weight of her displeasure.
"But tell us this much-is it about any of us?"
Several times they caught sight of a folded paper being stealthily passed from one desk to another, but as to its contents they had no idea, as it was not handed to any one of them.
Without hesitating, Eleanor rose and regarded the principal with an insolent smile.
"I have never been punished in my life, therefore I am not liable to give you the first opportunity.
Please make it a point to be on hand."
"She deserves to be punished.
It was passed to me by mistake."
It is something I was asked to sign."
What I insist upon knowing now, is who are the real culprits, beginning with the girl who originated the paper to the last one who signed it.
They were spending a most uncomfortable half hour with Miss Thompson.
I have so severely disciplined pupils for this offence that for a long time no one has disobeyed me.
You may, therefore, choose between two things. You may apologize to me now, and to morrow to the girls you have accused of treachery, or you may leave this school, not to return to it unless permitted to do so by the Board of Education."
"And did you sign it?" asked Jessica.
The girls who signed the paper I have mentioned will rise."
There was a moment of suspense, then Eleanor Savell proudly rose from her seat.
It was therefore a distinct and not altogether pleasant surprise when Miss Thompson walked into the room, dismissed the senior class and requested the three lower classes to remain in their seats.
Such a thing had not happened since the basketball trouble the previous year.
"I don't believe Grace is guilty, at any rate," thought Miss Thompson; then she addressed the assembled girls.
Then she deliberately tore the offending paper into shreds and scattered them broadcast.
I am sorry you found out about it, because it has spoiled all our fun."
"I certainly did not," responded Mabel.
You are both disrespectful and impertinent."
"Miss Savell," said the principal quietly, although her flashing eyes and set lips showed that she was very angry, "if you have that paper in your possession, bring it to me at once, and never answer me again as you did just now.
She had been on the point of telling.
Therefore, I intend to sift this matter to the bottom and find out what mischievous influence prompted this act of insubordination.
But Miss Thompson's anger toward Eleanor was nothing compared with the tempest that the principal had aroused in Eleanor.
There was a gasp of horror at Eleanor's assertion.
Such a decision is worse than disobedience-it is lawlessness.
"We'll talk when we get outside school.
Her example was followed, until two thirds of the girls present were standing.
Don't stop for a minute.
"Very likely," agreed Grace.
The majority, however, appeared to be highly delighted over what they heard, one group standing near one of the windows, of which Eleanor was the center, laughed so loudly that they were sent to their seats.
About one third of the girls arose and prepared to leave the study hall, the Phi Sigma Tau being among the number.
"I wouldn't say that, Grace," remarked Anne.
"It isn't.
With these words, Eleanor angrily flung the book she held on the desk and walked down the aisle toward the door, but Miss Thompson barred her way.
The other girls expressed their disapproval in equally frank terms.
The latter flushed, then turned perfectly white with rage.
"Hurry up," she said.
After the seniors had quietly left the study hall, Miss Thompson stood gravely regarding the rows of girls before her.
The girls silently donned their wraps and fled from the building like fugitives from justice.
"I wrote it, Miss Thompson," she said clearly.
"You all know," continued the principal, "that it is strictly forbidden for any pupil to absent herself from school for the purpose of attending a circus, matinee or any public performance of this nature.
"Now, what do you think of Miss Eleanor?" cried Nora.
Still there was no answer.
"Report says that this movement originated in the junior class, and that a paper has been circulated and signed by certain pupils, who pledged themselves to play truant and attend the matinee to morrow."
"It will have to be something remarkable in this instance," replied Grace grimly, as she bade the girls good bye.
"No," replied Mabel.
"Then, of course, we won't ask you," said Anne Pierson quickly.
"No, indeed," was the reply.
Once on the street a lively confab ensued, all talking at once.
"It was abominable," said Eva Allen.
"I suppose it did look as though I told you girls," said Mabel Allison, who had joined them at the gate.
"Remember, girls, basketball practice again to morrow, and the rest of the week.
The things she said to Miss Thompson were disgraceful, and I shall never forgive her for the way she spoke of us."
Still standing, she reached down, picked up a book from her desk and took from it a paper.
The girl who composed and wrote that agreement will now rise and explain herself."
If it doesn't concern us we don't care, do we, girls?"
At recess there was more grouping and whispering, and Grace was puzzled and not a little hurt over the way in which she and her friends were ignored.
For the first time since Eleanor had chosen to cut their acquaintance Grace was thoroughly angry with her.
"That will do," she said curtly, after they had stood for what seemed to them an age, but was really only a couple of minutes.
No one had ever before spoken so disrespectfully to their revered principal.
Without a word Eleanor rose and walked haughtily out of the room.
"I have dismissed the senior class, because I have been assured of their entire ignorance of the plot.
"It was----" she stopped, then flushed.
Eleanor looked scornfully at the principal, and was silent.
We are rich, as rich as kings!"
After a company of musketeers, a closely ranked troop of gentlemen, came the litter of monsieur le cardinal, drawn like a carriage by four black horses.
What are these people crying 'Vive le Roi!' for?
The stranger did not pay them the least attention; but Cropole approaching him respectfully, whispered, "Monsieur, the diamond has been valued."
"Well, well, my lord," said Parry, more uneasy at the turn the conversation had taken than at the other.
"He read it, and received me, my lord."
"Parry," cried the gentleman, "I beg you will; you come from England-you come so far.
"My lord," said the old man, "do not hasten to alarm yourself; all is not lost, I hope.
The young prince exhibited, when bowing to some windows from which issued the most animated acclamations, a noble and handsome countenance, illuminated by the flambeaux of his pages.
No, no; I have two arms, Parry, and I have a sword." And he struck his arm violently with his hand, and took down his sword, which hung against the wall.
The old man endeavored to change the conversation; it was leading to thoughts much too sinister.
"Have you them?"
Then, before he had recovered from his sombre reverie, all the noise, all the splendor, had passed away.
"Well?"
"Well?"
"A handsome likeness!" said Pittrino.
"Oh!" sighed the young man, clasping his neck convulsively with his hand, and with a sob.
My mother lives on public charity, my sister begs for my mother; I have, somewhere or other, brothers who equally beg for themselves; and I, the eldest, will go and do as all the rest do-I will go and ask charity!"
Happy mother!
Cropole deposited a tolerably large bag as directed, after having taken from it the amount of his reckoning.
"My good Parry," said he, "order a fire, drink, eat, sleep, and be happy; let us both be happy, my faithful friend, my only friend.
Come, what did the general say to you?"
"Yes, my lord; that is all."
When the king passed before him, the unknown, who had leant forward over the balcony to obtain a better view, and who had concealed his face by leaning on his arm, felt his heart swell and overflow with a bitter jealousy.
"But, privately-between you and him-what did he do?
"At first the general would not receive me."
"What are you going to do, my lord?"
The stranger waited for him on the landing; he opened his arms to the old man, and led him to a seat.
These cavaliers conducted me, in great haste, to the little port of Tenby, threw me, rather than embarked me, into a little fishing boat, about to sail for Brittany, and here I am."
"I have my reply to give your lordship, in the first place."
After this brief reply ensued a long interval of silence, broken only by the convulsive beating of the heel of the young man on the floor.
His minister heaps up millions, and conducts him to a rich bride.
The noise of the trumpets excited him-the popular acclamations deafened him: for a moment he allowed his reason to be absorbed in this flood of lights, tumult, and brilliant images.
"I thought it best to take them, monsieur; nevertheless, I made it a condition of the bargain, that if monsieur wished to keep his diamond, it should be held till monsieur was again in funds."
Some of the courtiers-the elder ones, for instance-wore traveling dresses; but all the rest were clothed in warlike panoply.
"Place the money on that trunk," said he, turning round and pointing to the piece of furniture.
"Sit down in your presence?--never!"
The young man leaned forward, thoughtful and sad.
"Parry, is that all?--is that all?"
But at that moment the voice of the stranger was heard from the window.
"Let me know," said the stranger,--"disguise nothing from me-what has happened?"
Vive le Roi!'"
"Pay yourself," added the unknown.
"He took you for a spy?"
"And notwithstanding you had signed the name Parry?"
Cropole turned around, and, on seeing the old man, cleared a passage for him.
The unknown asked for a glass of wine, broke off a morsel of bread, and did not stir from the window whilst he ate and drank.
You must employ energy, but more particularly resignation."
"Well-then, Parry."
I have meditated this journey ten years, in spite of all counsels and all obstacles-have you faith in my perseverance?
Parry, are there not examples in which a man of my condition should himself-"
The pomp was of a military character.
The king then appeared, mounted upon a splendid horse of Saxon breed, with a flowing mane.
I do not despair, Parry; have you faith in my resignation?"
"Yes, my lord; but I wrote him a letter."
Shortly after was heard a loud flourish of trumpets; cries arose in the distance, a confused buzzing filled the lower part of the city, and the first distinct sound that struck the ears of the stranger was the tramp of advancing horses.
The pages and people of the cardinal marched behind.
"The king!" cried Cropole, abandoning his guest and his ideas of delicacy, to satisfy his curiosity.
"What! arrest you, my most faithful servant?"
"Yes, my lord."
What every one in my family does.
"To all my letters, my lord; and the aide de camp had known me at saint James's and at Whitehall, too," added the old man with a sigh.
"The king! the king!" repeated a noisy and eager crowd.
"Arrested!" murmured the young man.
The window was instantly closed.
"What am I going to do, Parry?
A sad smile passed over the lips of the gentleman.
Chapter seven.
All these trumpets are his, all those gilded housings are his, all those gentlemen wear swords that are his.
"Well, monsieur, the jeweler of s a r gives two hundred and eighty pistoles for it."
"My lord, in the name of Heaven-"
"Parry," said the young man, "I have reached this place through a thousand snares and after a thousand difficulties; can you doubt my energy?
"You are right, Parry; I am a coward, and if I do nothing for myself, what will God do?
His mother precedes him in a carriage magnificently encrusted with silver and gold.
"My recital will be short, my lord; but in the name of Heaven do not tremble so."
"Then the general sent me back the letter by an aide de camp, informing me that if I were found the next day within the circumscription of his command, he would have me arrested."
If the solitude these mountains promise deceives me not, it is so; ah!
CHAPTER twenty eight.
But proceed; by and by I may tell you something that will astonish you as much as it will excite your compassion."
"All this caution of mine, which he must have taken for coyness, had apparently the effect of increasing his wanton appetite-for that is the name I give to his passion for me; had it been what he declared it to be, you would not know of it now, because there would have been no occasion to tell you of it.
And so, senora, or senor, or whatever you prefer to be, dismiss the fears that our appearance has caused you and make us acquainted with your good or evil fortunes, for from all of us together, or from each one of us, you will receive sympathy in your trouble."
But to shorten the long recital of my woes, I will pass over in silence all the artifices employed by Don Fernando for declaring his passion for me.
This offer, and their sound advice strengthened my resolution, and I never gave Don Fernando a word in reply that could hold out to him any hope of success, however remote.
Dorothea, however, did not interrupt her story, but went on in these words:
In the good town of Blyth there lived a stout tanner, celebrated far and near for feats of strength and many tough bouts at wrestling and the quarterstaff.
Suddenly Robin Hood smote his knee.
But Little john suffered the most, for he had become unused to such stiff labor, and his joints were not as supple as they had been before he went to dwell with the Sheriff.
So for a long time they both of them went hunting about, Little john after the Tanner, and the Tanner after the deer.
"Heaven forbid that I should doubt thee, for I care for no taste of thy staff myself, Little john.
ONE FINE DAY, not long after Little john had left abiding with the Sheriff and had come back, with his worship's cook, to the merry greenwood, as has just been told, Robin Hood and a few chosen fellows of his band lay upon the soft sward beneath the greenwood tree where they dwelled.
I am no thief, but an honest craftsman.
Thus spoke Robin Hood to himself, all his anger passing away like a breath from the windowpane, at the thought that perhaps his trusty right-hand man was in some danger of his life.
Who art thou that comest ranging Sherwood's paths?
Accordingly, quitting the path, he went peeping this way and that through the underbrush, spying now here and now there, with all the wiles of a master of woodcraft, and of one who had more than once donned a doublet of Lincoln green.
"Will I join thy band?" cried the Tanner joyfully.
His name is Little john, and mine Robin Hood."
Now look to thyself, fellow!"
Then, raising his staff, stout Arthur dealt him another blow upon the ribs.
"Nay, I pass not for length," answered the Tanner.
Little john and the Tanner of Blyth
Not far from the trysting tree was a great rock in which a chamber had been hewn, the entrance being barred by a massive oaken door two palms'-breadth in thickness, studded about with spikes, and fastened with a great padlock.
"Big words ne'er killed so much as a mouse. Who art thou that talkest so freely of cracking the head of Arthur a Bland?
I will follow thee to the ends of the earth, good master, and not a herd of dun deer in all the forest but shall know the sound of the twang of my bowstring."
I must needs own that there are those of my band can handle a seven foot staff more deftly than I; yet no man in all Nottinghamshire can draw gray goose shaft with my fingers.
Thou didst break the crown of a friend of mine at the fair at Ely last October.
His way led, all in the dewy morn, past the verge of Sherwood Forest, where the birds were welcoming the lovely day with a great and merry jubilee.
Bide thou here till I bring thee money to pay our good Hugh.
I warrant he hath no better customers in all Nottinghamshire than we." So saying, Robin left them and entered the forest.
At last Little john trod upon a stick, which snapped under his foot, whereupon, hearing the noise, the Tanner turned quickly and caught sight of the yeoman.
At this Robin laughed again, and, turning to the Tanner, he said, "Wilt thou join my band, good Arthur?
None thought of time or tide till the night was so far gone that Little john put by the thought of setting forth upon his journey again that night, and so bided at the Blue Boar Inn until the morrow.
I fear me, though, there is but poor chance of my seeing such a pleasant sight." So saying, he stretched himself at length upon the ground, that he might not only see the sport the better, but that he might enjoy the merry sight at his ease.
Now Arthur had been to Nottingham Town the day before Little john set forth on his errand, there to sell a halfscore of tanned cowhides.
"Stop!" roared Little john.
Fresh cans of ale were brought, and with jest and song and merry tales the hours slipped away on fleeting wings.
"Stay!" said Little john.
"Let us first measure our cudgels.
The day was warm and sultry, so that while most of the band were scattered through the forest upon this mission and upon that, these few stout fellows lay lazily beneath the shade of the tree, in the soft afternoon, passing jests among themselves and telling merry stories, with laughter and mirth.
First he looked up and then he looked down, and then, tilting his cap over one eye, he slowly scratched the back part of his head.
"Ay, marry, will I! Hey for a merry life!" cried he, leaping aloft and snapping his fingers, "and hey for the life I love!
Now it was an ill piece of luck for Little john that he left his duty for his pleasure, and he paid a great score for it, as we are all apt to do in the same case, as you shall see.
Seeing that the Tanner had spied him out, Little john put a bold face upon the matter.
As for my countenance, it is what it is; and, for the matter of that, thine own is none too pretty, thou saucy fellow."
"And so thought I, also," cried Robin Hood, bursting out of the thicket and shouting with laughter till the tears ran down his cheeks.
"Hold!" roared Little john.
For I make my vow thou art one of the stoutest men that ever mine eyes beheld."
"Now," quoth Arthur a Bland to himself, when he had come to that part of the road that cut through a corner of the forest, "no doubt at this time of year the dun deer are coming from the forest depths nigher to the open meadow lands.
So, being vexed to his heart by this, he set forth at dawn of day to seek Little john at the Blue Boar, or at least to meet the yeoman on the way, and ease his heart of what he thought of the matter.
"Surely," quoth he to himself, "that is Little John's voice, and he is talking in anger also.
Let me help thee to thy feet, good Master Little john, and let me brush the dust from off thy coat."
Four merry wags were at the Blue Boar Inn; a butcher, a beggar, and two barefoot friars.
"Nay," quoth he again, after a time, "this matter must e'en be looked into." So, quitting the highroad, he also entered the thickets, and began spying around after stout Arthur a Bland.
I must see to this matter, and that quickly."
At last Little john struck like a flash, and-"rap!"--the Tanner met the blow and turned it aside, and then smote back at Little john, who also turned the blow; and so this mighty battle began.
"What may be thy name, good fellow?" said Robin, next, turning to the Tanner.
It must be looked to, and that in quick season.
"Marry come up with a murrain!" cried the Tanner, for he, too, had talked himself into a fume.
At the dawn of the same day that Little john left the inn, he started from Nottingham, homeward for Blyth.
Methinks the other is strange to my ears.
"Nay," quoth Robin Hood, laughing louder than all.
Right glad were they to welcome such a merry blade as Little john.
"Help!
"Nay," quoth the Tanner boldly-for, though taken by surprise, he was not a man to be frightened by big words-"thou liest in thy teeth.
The folk there call him Jock o' Nottingham; we call him Will Scathelock.
So, without more ado, each gripped his staff in the middle, and, with fell and angry looks, they came slowly together.
Come, busk thee, Little john!
"My staff is long enough to knock down a calf; so look to thyself, fellow, I say again."
All this time Robin Hood lay beneath the bush, rejoicing at such a comely bout of quarterstaff.
The principal compound measures are four beat and six beat, both being referred to as compound duple measures.
MEASURE
In rapid tempi this is always taken as compound duple measure, a dotted quarter note having a beat.
(one) A group of even beats (or pulses), always felt, though not always actually sounded, one or more of these beats being stronger than the rest;
three.
Rhythm is the regular recurrence of accent in a series of beats (or pulses), while measure is the grouping of these beats according to some specified system.
ninety eight.
There are two main classes of simple measures, two beat measure, and three beat measure.
The student will note the essential difference between rhythm and measure.
ninety seven.
Since, however, one cannot in the majority of cases distinguish between two beat and four beat measures, it will probably be best to leave the original classification intact and regard four beat measure as a compound variety.
The strongest accent falls normally on the first beat in the measure.
one.
one hundred.
Five beat, seven beat, nine beat, and twelve beat measures are also classified as compound measures.
Perhaps the easiest way out of the difficulty is to admit that both may be true-but in different compositions.
ninety nine.
Rhythm is thus seen to be a fundamental thing, inherent in the music itself, while measure is to a certain extent at least an arbitrary grouping which musicians have adopted for practical purposes.
four.
CHAPTER ten
Two essential characteristics are involved in the ordinary musical measure:
God grant that the sweet memory of that little child's kiss may be so lasting that all their lives, he and others, may be purer and better men.
Nothing so delicious as their salads (for the French cooks had long ago gone, the hotel management being changed, and Mollie had a nice little kitchen of her own), and with fresh salmon trout, wild fowl, fresh meats and vegetables, we made up for many months of winter dieting.
Farewell to the moss covered hills and paths thickly bordered with blossoms.
During the month of July we eagerly watched the incoming steamers, and welcomed all new comers who landed in Chinik.
Then her big, black eyes glance brightly into blue ones looking down from above, full red lips part in a cordial smile, while the one solitary dimple in the smooth, round cheek pricks its way still deeper, and small arms go up around his neck.
I wanted to take both with me, but, no, I could not.
On the morning of the twenty sixth of June I awoke to find that the ice had drifted out to sea in the night, eight days after Mollie and I had taken our twelve miles trip across the bay and return.
The "Dora" had entered the bay in the morning and found my trunk packed and waiting; it was then only the work of a little time to make ready to leave.
When the man turns, his face wears a soft and tender expression as though he were looking at some beautiful sight far away, and, perhaps, he is.
The little girl's work was not ended.
Our little sick girl being obliged now to keep her bed continually, with no more playing in the sand and sunshine, although her cough had left her, was still the same sweet, patient child she had been through all her illness, and my whole time was given to her.
CHAPTER twenty six.
Friends soon came in from the outside, bringing city dolls dressed in ribbons and laces; there were tiny dishes, chairs, tables,--a hundred things dear to a little girl's heart, and all pleased her immensely, but all were laid quickly aside for a basket of wild flowers or mosses, for a fish, bird, animal or baby, showing plainly her taste for the things of nature in preference to art.
Then our fingers trembled at opening our letters until we found that all our dear ones were well, and we heartily thanked the Lord.
By the thirtieth of June schooners were coming into the bay with passengers and freight, and the coast steamers, "Elmore" and "Dora," had begun to make regular trips to and from Nome.
Sometimes it was a little live bird or squirrel, a delicious salmon trout or wild fowl for her supper; sometimes it was candy, nuts, or fresh fruit from Nome, and with everything she was well pleased and joyous.
Before one of the sunny south windows of the living room we placed her cot each morning, and here she received her numerous friends, both Eskimo and white, and their names were legion.
GOOD BYE TO GOLOVIN BAY.
Letters from my father and brother in Dawson had been received.
The captain's vegetable garden in the sand was growing rapidly, and was watched with eager eyes by everyone.
I was determined to go to saint Michael, up the Yukon to Dawson, and "outside," and laid my plans accordingly.
To my good missionary friends I had already said good bye, and the captain and Mollie were kindly regretful.
With them came mails from the outside, with newspapers and tidings of friends in the States.
A few remained for the summer.
Since the stone throwing episode the Marshal had been doing duty as watchman, sleeping during the day and guarding the house nights, the heavy iron "bracelets" in his inner coat pocket weighing scarcely more than the loaded revolver in his belt.
Here men built boats, and rowed away to Keechawik and Neukluk, carrying supplies for hunting or prospecting.
With tears in my eyes, but with real pain in my heart I bade Jennie good bye, and stepped into the little boat which was to carry me to the "Dora."
I was going each day to the hill top to watch for the steamers which would bring the letters for which I waited.
When August came I sailed away.
Affairs connected with my gold claims were, with much anxiety and trouble, arranged as well as possible, and when I boarded the steamer, I would carry with me, at least, three deeds to as many claims, with a fair prospect of others; but I could not decide to remain another winter.
Many times I have seen evidence of the sweet and gentle influences going out from the life of little Yahkuk as she lies upon her cot of pain.
All this time I longed to get away.
Born as she was in a rough mining camp at the foot of the barren hills, she was given the Eskimo name of Yahkuk, meaning a little hill, and she, like an oasis in a desert place, is left here to cheer, love, and help others.
They came from the east, west, north and south, all sorry to know of her illness, and bringing presents with them.
Her love for her birthplace, with its hills, streams and ocean is a sincere one, and, young as she is, and having seen the great city by the Golden Gate, with many of its wonders, she is happiest in Chinik.
A tall, brown miner enters the living room, goes to the little bed by the window, speaks softly, and, bending over the tiny girl, kisses her.
As our ship sailed out into Behring Sea we were closely followed by the steamer "George w Elder," whose master, an old friend of our captain, had decided to follow in our wake, he being less familiar than the latter with Alaskan waters, and having confidence in the ability of his friend to successfully pilot both ships to Cape Nome.
As we drew nearer and entered the harbor so well land locked, the sun dipped low into yellow red western waters, thereby casting long shadows aslant our pathway so delicately shaded in greens.
I slept for hours each day and thoroughly enjoyed the trip.
Day after day passed.
All were loaded with passengers and freight for Nome.
There were several Swedish missionaries; one, a zealous young woman from San Francisco, going to the Swedish Mission at Golovin Bay.
Little did I then think that these people, placed by a seeming chance in an adjoining stateroom, were to be my fellow workers and true friends, not only for the coming months in that Arctic land to which we were going, but, as the sequel will show, perhaps for years to come.
I was not above doing any honest work, and felt confident that I could make my way if I could gain an entrance into that country.
Scout boats had already been sent out to investigate and find, if possible, a passage through the ice fields, and the return of these scouts with good news was anxiously watched and waited for, as the most desired thing at that time was a speedy and safe landing on the supposedly golden beach sands of Nome.
She wore a sailor suit of navy blue serge, trimmed with white braid, and was as coy and cunning as ever, not speaking often to strangers, but laughing and running away to her mother when addressed.
On Monday, June fourth, we saw from the deck a few drifting logs and a quantity of seaweed, and these, with the presence of gulls and goonies flying overhead, convinced us that we were nearing land.
These evenings were sometimes varied by recitations from an elocutionist on board; and a practised clog dancer excited the risibles of the company to the extent that they usually shouted with laughter at his exhibition of flying heels.
This young person was pretty and pleasant, and I was glad to make her acquaintance as well as that of three other women speaking the same tongue and occupying the next stateroom to mine.
Passing along easily beyond another high mountain, we were soon at the dock of Unalaska, beside other great ships in port.
Not a foot of space above or below decks was left unused, but provision was made for all, and the ship was well manned.
The last named were going to start a restaurant in Nome.
GOING TO NOME.
Paul" to May twenty sixth, and we left the dock on Saturday afternoon amid the cheers and hand waving of thousands of people who had come to see the big boat off for Nome.
Of these thirty five were women.
CHAPTER seven.
At last we entered the Japan current and the weather was warmer and more enjoyable.
Paul," belonging to the Alaska Commercial Company, and was advertised to sail on May twenty fifth.
The English people were all workers, and I had known them for ten years or more.
We tried at last to give them comfort by recommending out of former experiences ship's biscuit, dry toast and pop corn as remedies, but only received black looks as our reward.
Every stateroom was full; each seat at the tables occupied.
There was only one child on board, and that was the little black eyed girl with her Eskimo mother and white father from Golovin Bay whom I had seen at saint Michael some months before, and who was now going back to her northern home.
We were taking supplies of clothing, food, tents and bedding sufficient to last until some of our numerous plans of work after our arrival brought in returns.
When she sang, one evening, in her clear sympathetic voice the selection, "Oh, Where Is My Wandering Boy Tonight," there was not a dry eye in the room, and the mind of many a man went back to his old home and praying mother in some far distant state, making him resolve to write oftener to her that she might be comforted with a knowledge of his whereabouts and welfare.
I was now much gratified to learn that there were many on board whom I had met before; that the steward, stewardess and several of the waiters had been on duty on the steamer "Bertha" during my trip out from Alaska the fall before, while I was upon speaking terms with a dozen or more of the passengers with whom I had traveled from the same place.
We had preachers on board, as well as doctors, lawyers, merchants and miners, and there were women going to Nome to start eating houses, hotels and mercantile shops.
Not many days had passed when we found that we had on board what few steamers can boast of, and that was an orchestra of professional musicians among the waiters.
Three evenings in the week these musicians, with the help of several singers on board, gave concerts in the dining salon, which, though impromptu, were very enjoyable.
Paul." All were well cared for and satisfied, as well they might be, with the service of the ship's men.
It was useless for us to tell them a pathetic tale of some one, who, at some time, had been more ill than they, because they would not believe a word of it, and it was equally useless to recommend an antidote for mal de mer such as theirs.
The tops of the mountains were covered with snow. Down deep gorges dashed mountain waters of melting snow and ice, hurrying to leap off gullied and rocky cliffs into the sea.
As they were sociable, jolly, and good sailors for the most part, I enjoyed their society.
"No one was ever so ill before," they said.
Both groups of craft were evidently waiting for the ice to clear from Behring Sea before proceeding on their way northward, and we counted sixteen ships of different kinds and sizes, the majority of them large steamers.
My hope was to meet my father there, for he had written that he thought he should go to the new gold fields, where he could do beach mining.
Those who were continually seasick had diversion enough.
No tree nor shrub obstructed the way with gnarled old trunks, twisted roots, or low hanging branches, for none grow in Unalaska, and the bold dignity and grandeur of the mountains is never diminished by these lesser objects.
We then concluded that a diet of tea, coffee and soup was exactly such a one as the fishes would recommend could they speak, these favorite and much used liquids keeping up a continual "swishing" in one's interior regions, and causing one to truthfully speak of the same as "infernal" instead of internal.
But they were all tree physical as well as free moral agents and decided these things for themselves.
We were not mistaken.
Of passengers we had, all told, four hundred and eighty seven.
A sweet and trained singer was the English girl of our company, and she sang many times, accompanied by the stringed instruments of the musicians, much to the delight of the assembled passengers.
The little hamlet of Dutch Harbor nestled cosily at the foot of the mountains which bordered the bay, and here numbers of ships lay anchored at rest.
Leaving Unalaska the sun shone clear and cold upon the mountains where in places the sides looked black from the late fires started in the deep tundra by miscreants.
Their progress was never impeded.
They knew they should die and be buried at sea, and hoped they would if that would put an end to their sufferings.
They had all lived in San Francisco for years, and though not related to each other, were firm friends of long standing and were uniting their little fortunes in the hope of making greater ones.
These were men going, with all the others, to seek their fortunes in the new gold fields, working their passage as waiters on the ship to Nome, where they intended to leave it.
An English family consisting of the mother, one son and a daughter were to accompany me, and we had spent weeks in making our preparations.
Nevertheless, she continued to call Jean Valjean: Father.
Her heart and the Louvre.
He remained for a quarter of an hour at a time gazing at Cosette.
CHAPTER six-THE TWO OLD MEN DO EVERYTHING, EACH ONE AFTER HIS OWN FASHION, TO RENDER COSETTE HAPPY
Learn this: joy is not only joyous; it is great.
Be grave in church, well and good.
Ah! people might be sylphs.
"Love is all very well; but there must be something else to go with it.
"The wonderful, beautiful girl!" he exclaimed.
The wedding is not the housekeeping.
The young man arrived, the old man was effaced; such is life.
Happiness is only the necessary.
Moreover, the six hundred thousand francs had settled the elderly spinster's indecision.
Ah! it is true, I regret the grace of the ancient manners.
Neither any bad, nor any good odor.
I regret the bride's garter.
It was then December.
My friends, in bygone days, in those amiable days of yore, people married wisely; they had a good contract, and then they had a good carouse.
He extricated Cosette from all difficulties.
Cosette became in the eyes of the law, Mademoiselle Euphrasie Fauchelevent.
She had reserved her decision on this point.
The doctor, on being consulted, declared that it might take place in February.
A few ravishing weeks of perfect happiness passed.
Fetch me Phyllis crowned with corn flowers, and add a hundred thousand francs income.
They said what was wanted and they said it with zeal.
Make way!
Be one of the gods.
He who loves well lashes well.
But, in sooth! the stomach is an agreeable beast which demands its due, and which wants to have its wedding also.
While the grandfather, in full lyrical effusion, was listening to himself, Cosette and Marius grew intoxicated as they gazed freely at each other.
With Cosette's garter, Homer would construct the Iliad.
--there's a festive programme, there's a good one, or else I know nothing of such matters, deuce take it!"
at being petty.
You smell nothing of life.
Jean Valjean did everything, smoothed away every difficulty, arranged everything, made everything easy.
I want the superfluous, the useless, the extravagant, excess, that which serves no purpose.
"It's an old plan of mine.
The grandfather was not the least happy of them all.
I belong to it.
For my part, I am of the opinion of the big clock of Strasburg, and I prefer it to the cuckoo clock from the Black Forest."
Marius returned, Marius brought back bleeding, Marius brought back from a barricade, Marius dead, then living, Marius reconciled, Marius betrothed, Marius wedding a poor girl, Marius wedding a millionairess.
The dreams of your bourgeois who set up, as they express it: a pretty boudoir freshly decorated, violet, ebony and calico.
Since the revolution, everything, including the ballet dancers, has had its trousers; a mountebank dancer must be grave; your rigadoons are doctrinarian.
why did Achilles and Hector hew each other up with vast blows of their lances? Because Helen allowed Paris to take her garter.
He would put in his poem, a loquacious old fellow, like me, and he would call him Nestor.
"No," replied Cosette, "but it seems to me that the good God is caring for us."
There's the epoch for you.
One of the sides of that century was delicate, the other was magnificent; and by the green cabbages! people amused themselves. To day, people are serious.
People had no straps to their boots, they had no boots.
Again everything depends upon the experience and tact of the physician.
There is no one for whom there is not a chance for work in our social fabric.
Too often he is entirely unconscious of the sources of trouble or else he has social reasons to deceive the world and himself, and ultimately the physician.
The same effect which religion produces may thus be secured by any other deep interest: service for a great human cause, enthusiasm for a gigantic plan, even the prospect of a great personal success.
But one rule is common to all of them: never use psychotherapeutic methods in a schematic way like a rigid pattern.
This power is the act of attention. An attention which is trained and disciplined can hold its ideas against chance impulses.
Every element of a man's life history, impressions of early childhood, his love and his successes, his diseases and his distresses, his acquaintances and his reading, his talent, his character, his sincerity, his energy, his intelligence-everything-ought to determine the choice of the psychotherapeutic steps.
Skill, tact, and experience are needed there.
Perceptions and associations, reactions and expressions ought to be examined with the same carefulness with which the conscientious physician examines the blood and the urine.
To prescribe drugs is always quicker than to influence the mind; to cure a morphinist by hyoscine needs less effort than to cure him by suggestion.
How psychotherapy is related to the church will interest us later.
To be sure, we must not forget that we have to deal here with a causal and not with a purposive point of view.
The desire to hide them may often be itself a part of the disease.
Voluntary effort is needed, and this is the field where the psychotherapist must put in his most intelligent effort.
Yet this general treatment may take and very often ought to take the opposite direction, not towards rest but towards work, not towards light distraction but towards serious effort, not towards reduction of engagements but towards energetic regulation.
This fundamental law of the relativity of psychical impressions controls our whole life.
The boy may pass as all right if we meet him at a ball; only his tutor knows the whole misery.
But if frequent pauses are made, and each short, the result is with many individuals the opposite.
Harmonious joyful company, as different as possible from the depressing company of the sanitariums, will add its pleasantness.
As a matter of course, in the overwhelming mass of cases the frankness and the good will of the patient himself will support the physician and accordingly his examination is not obliged to trap the patient but simply to guide him to important points.
And yet no psychical treatment can start successfully so long as the patient is brooding on secret thoughts at the bottom of his mind.
As it is entirely impossible to determine all those factors by any sufficient inquiry, most of the adjustment of method must be left to the instinct of the physician, in which wide experience, solid knowledge, tact, and sympathy ought to be blended. Even the way in which the patient reacts on the method will often guide the instinct of the well trained psychotherapist.
But from such a causal point of view, we should not underestimate the manifold good which can come from the causal effect of religious and ethical ideas.
A go as you please method characterizes our whole society from the kindergarten to the height of life.
While the advice of the physician ought thus to emphasize the positive elements which work, not towards rest, but toward a harmonious mental activity, we must not forget some essential negative prescriptions. Everything is to be avoided which interferes with the night's sleep. Furthermore, in the first place, alcohol must be avoided.
Yet mere flippant excitement and superficial entertainment is nothing but a cheap counterfeit of what is needed.
All is a matter of choice and adjustment to the particular needs in which all the personal factors of inherited constitution, acquired adjustments, social surroundings, temperament, and education, and the probable later development have to be most tactfully weighed.
Therapy is always only the last step.
In the second place come games and sport, which may enter into their right if fatigue can be avoided.
As soon as new faith in life is given, and given even where a sincere prognosis must be a sad one, a great and not seldom unexpected improvement is secured.
We eulogize the principle of following the paths of own true interest and mean by that too often paths of least resistance.
Strong drinks like cocktails are absolutely to be excluded.
Moreover there the technique may be more complex and subtle.
The whole equipment of the modern laboratory ought to be put at its disposal.
The intellectual worker ought to decrease his work, the overbusy society woman ought to stay in bed one day in the week, the man in the midst of the rush of life ought to cut down his obligations, but probably each of them does better to go on than simply to swear off altogether.
Diagnosis and observation have to precede, and an inquiry into the causes of the disease is essential, and in every one of these steps psychology may play its role. The means of psychodiagnostic are not less manifold than those of psychotherapy.
This relativity of the mental reaction on the demands of life must always be in the foreground of the psychotherapeutic regime.
Only the nervous system cannot so easily be adjusted to the new regime.
So, lay down your body here; your bow and arrows, your skin and your dog.
They shall be kept for you safely.'
The Prince undertook the task and led the mare out to the meadow.
Now farewell, and heaven prosper your undertaking.' She handed him the little bell, and there disappeared hut and all, as though the earth had swallowed her up.
The Prince replied, 'I have heard so much of the beauty and kindness of the Dragon's Mother, and would like to enter her service.'
I will summon all the eagles of the air together, and order them to catch the mare and bring her to you.' And with these words the King of the Eagles flew away.
Then the Prince said to her, 'You can hardly walk; I will put you on my horse and lead you home.
With these words the King of the Foxes disappeared, and in the evening many thousand foxes brought the mare to the Prince.
As he sat thus lost in thought, he noticed an eagle flying over his head.
The Prince answered at once, 'I have heard so much of your beauty and kindness, that I would very much like to enter your service.'
Her appearance was a great shock to the Prince, and so was her voice, which was like the croaking of many ravens.
But if you wish to see the Flower Queen's daughter go up the second mountain: the Dragon's old mother lives there, and she has a ball every night, to which the Flower Queen's daughter goes regularly.'
But no sooner had they reached the grass than she vanished.
'Most certainly I would,' replied the Prince.
'No, I do not,' answered the old man.
He opened the big gate leading into the courtyard, and was just going to walk in, when seven dragons rushed on him and asked him what he wanted?
This flattering speech pleased the dragons, and the eldest of them said, 'Well, you may come with me, and I will take you to the Mother Dragon.'
Here, too, was the Flower Queen's beautiful daughter.
She was the ugliest woman under the sun, and, added to it all, she had three heads.
'Very well,' said the Mother Dragon; 'but if you wish to enter my service, you must first lead my mare out to the meadow and look after her for three days; but if you don't bring her home safely every evening, we will eat you up.'
'You are a brave youth, and I will make you my body servant.
'Did you pay attention to everything?'
They said at last, 'What use was it our deserting?
The army cannot come into it, and to morrow it is to march on.'
'Indeed! three soldiers!' said she.
'I haven't had much luck to day,' he said, 'but I have a tight hold on three soldiers.'
If you can tell me what you will get for your roast meat, you shall be free, and shall also keep the whip.'
You can then live as great lords, keep horses, and drive about in carriages.
In the North Sea lies a dead sea cat-that shall be their roast meat; and the rib of a whale-that shall be their silver spoon; and the hollow foot of a dead horse-that shall be their wineglass.'
The two melancholy ones thought, 'That won't save us!' and they remained where they were.
But the three soldiers took the little whip, whipped as much money as they wanted, and lived happily to their lives end.
He gave them a little whip, saying, 'Whip and slash with this, and as much money as you want will jump up before you.
'I will tell you this.
'Yes,' he replied, 'I know enough, and can help myself splendidly.'
They were not allowed much time for their adieus; the Rainbow vanished, and the Princess, resolved to run all risks, started off at once, taking nothing with her but her dog, her cat, a sprig of myrtle, and the stone which the wife of Locrinos gave her.
She had no doubt (though really I cannot think why) that the moment had come in which to use the nut which had been given her.
Now this Locrinos was a cruel monster who devoured everyone he came across, and especially enjoyed a chance of catching and eating any young girls.
When Lagree became aware of her prisoner's flight she was furious, and set off at full speed in pursuit.
Opening them, the boys could hardly suppress their jubilation.
Still going at maximum speed, and now on a straight line toward the American side, without seeking a further height, the Taube several times wavered, and, a moment later, almost turned over.
There their front-line ranks held firm, while the new formation was being effected behind them. It was about four o'clock in the afternoon when this was complete.
CHAPTER fifteen
Whatever the morrow might bring, the night promised to be fairly quiet, while each side took account of stock and made necessary repairs, or altered their plans to meet the new situation.
Well, the officer being a pretty good pilot, we decided to have that machine.
"Who are you?"
"But some other German aviators saw the affair, apparently recognized our uniforms, and hardly gave us time to make a decent start.
Nothing could halt them.
It was now well into the afternoon.
Four American planes sailed off and upward to meet the oncoming German air armada.
"Say," Jerry concluded, "they certainly did pebble us with machine-gun bullets!
As he tore it open and read the brief note within, a pleased smile spread over his face.
Then, just as dawn was breaking, the infantry onslaught, participated in at some points by detachments of cavalry, began.
Then, in concerted action, the lines opened at alternate points, and pairs, dozens, scores of the huge armored tanks rolled through, their big guns already blazing shells into the ranks of the disconcerted enemy.
From the same envelope he extracted three smaller ones.
The sun was setting, and soon, in great measure, at least, hostilities would be suspended for the night.
At least that was the way it looked.
They were crossing a short gallery when Slim abruptly signaled a halt.
Can't make self heard.
Can you help?"
It was locked.
"S M O T H E R I N G."
He opened his left hand.
"Somebody shoved me-in that closet," he gasped, "and then-slammed and-locked-the door."
I talked with him over the pipe."
"Caught your message on deck.
"It sounded like another call."
"Who are you-and where?"
Help!"
"A trifle heavy!
He had disappeared when the sailor said to me, 'I think that was the fellow-the one that just went by.' Not wanting to arouse his suspicions, I ended the conversation with a casual remark, and then strolled away until I was out of the sailor's sight, and then hurried as fast as I could toward the engine room.
I was groping my way along when I thought I heard steps just ahead of me.
Then-
He was in his undershirt.
"Right!" cried Jerry.
"And what does this fellow do aboard the ship?"
THE DEATH OF THE SPY
CHAPTER eight
"Oh, yes, you will," counseled Joe.
CHAPTER eleven
Isn't that so, Hoskins?"
"It's nothing," the youthful chauffeur replied.
'What!
'Wouldn't what?--How do they know that I go there?'
'Oh, Gilbert!'
How like him to think of the coffee; and oh, how like him to be coming to the station.
So she telegraphed to Deryck from Paris, and at present her mind saw no further than Wimpole Street.
But she knew an unbiased judgment, steadier than her own, must solve the problem; and that her surest way to Garth lay through the doctor's consulting room.
Her mind leaped to enjoyment, then fell back stunned by the blow of quick remembrance, and Jane shut her eyes.
Isn't she worth knowing?
"Seven pence 'apenny of this stuff ain't much for carrying all that along, I DON'T think!" grumbled his mate; and Jane's young porter experienced the double joy of faith confirmed, and willing service generously rewarded.
Then she turned to the window.
Not of half crowns; of those she had plenty.
This way.
"Oh, thank you, my good fellow," said Jane, putting the plate on the seat, while she dived into her pocket.
Fetch me a cup of coffee, will you?"
"That is right, dear," he said.
Just back from Scotland.
CHAPTER fourteen
"All fit and well, I can see.
The young porter, who still stood sentry at the door of Jane's compartment, dashed off to the refreshment room; and, just as the train began to move, handed a cup of steaming coffee and a plate of bread and butter in at the window.
The train moved on, and the porter stood looking after it with tears in his eyes.
WE were!' I feel tempted to wish, for one homicidal moment, that the earth would open her mouth and swallow them up.
Jane gave a sudden sob; then turned to him, dry eyed.
An hour after she had read it, she was driving down the long straight road to Cairo; embarked at Alexandria the next day; landed at Brindisi, and this night and day travelling had brought her at last within sight of the shores of England.
His sight is hopelessly gone, but the injured parts were progressing favourably, and all fear of brain complications seemed over.
She took off her hat and leaned back against the cushions.
"He will always be blind, dear.
And here we are at Wimpole Street.
All beautiful sights brought this pang to her heart since the reading of that paragraph on the piazza of the Mena House Hotel.
It was from the doctor.
Then she saw behind him her aunt's footman, and her own maid, who had been given a place in the duchess's household.
Coffee at a moment's notice should fetch a fancy price.
I telephoned the duchess to send some of her people to meet your luggage, and not to expect you herself until dinner time, as you were taking tea with us. Was that right?
"Is there no hope, Deryck?"
That it was a complicated problem, her common sense told her; though her yearning arms and aching bosom cried out: "O God, is it not simple?
Did you ever see anything to equal it, as you steam away in the sunset?"
Have coffee at Dover.
But above all else she needed just now a wise, strong, helpful friend, and Deryck had not failed her.
"Deryck-I love him."
Come outside the barrier.
The doctor was stationed exactly opposite the door when her carriage came to a standstill; mere chance, and yet, to Jane, it seemed so like him to have taken up his position precisely at the right spot on that long platform.
She, also, had need of many things.
And New York harbour!
The turmoil of her soul was stilled; a great calm took its place, and Jane dropped quietly off to sleep.
Coffee was the last thing she wanted; but it never occurred to any one to disobey the doctor, even at a distance.
Over the first half crown he had said to himself: "Milk and new laid eggs." Now, as he pocketed the second, he added the other two things mentioned by the parish doctor: "Soup and jelly"; and his heart glowed.
She tore it open.
DERYCK."
"Here! you have done very well for me.
MY Garth!"
"Here, somebody!
That she was going to him, Jane knew; but she felt utterly unable to arrange how or in what way her going could be managed.
What a rabble!
But life holds other things beside sight.
"Here, my boy!
"Welcome home.
Jane pulled off her gloves, swallowed suddenly, then gripped the doctor's knee.
'Not he,' said Sylvia, with some contempt in her tone.
It was the time of the great half yearly traffic of the place; another impetus was given to business when the whalers returned in the autumn, and the men were flush of money, and full of delight at once more seeing their homes and their friends.
Kinraid had turned his steps towards Haytersbank Farm as soon as ever he had completed his purchases.
He had intended if necessary to acknowledge his wishes and desires with regard to Sylvia to her parents; but for various reasons he was not sorry that circumstances had given him the chance of seeing her alone, and obtaining her promise to marry him without being obliged to tell either her father or her mother at present.
But she was so afraid of herself, so unwilling to show what she felt, and how much she had been thinking of him in his absence, that her reception seemed cold and still.
But all she said was-
Her mother's story of crazy Nancy had taken hold of her; but not as a 'caution,' rather as a parallel case to her own.
Charley did not speak for a minute or so.
He must have been pretty sure from some sign or other, or he would never have left it to her womanly pride to give way, and for her to make the next advance.
Dolly Reid came in, and went out softly, unheeded by them.
Out of respect to him, Philip asked no more questions although there were many things that he fain would have known.
Daniel laughed the more at this, especially when he caught Charley's look of disappointment.
'I may go back to where I came from,' he went on.
One evening after the shop was closed, while they were examining the goods, and comparing the sales with the entries in the day book, Coulson suddenly inquired-
Neither could keep quiet and silent long.
At any rate, it was not unwelcome.
Things were much in this state when the frost broke, and milder weather succeeded.
For a time there was no answer.
I'm noan comin' down again to night.'
When Philip saw Sylvia she was always quiet and gentle; perhaps more silent than she had been a year ago, and she did not attend so briskly to what was passing around her.
She was too dizzy with happiness to have attended much to his details of his worldly prospects, but at the sound of his tender words of love her eager heart was ready to listen.
Sylvia sat in the house place, her back to the long low window, in order to have all the light the afternoon hour afforded for her work.
These were the larger wholesale orders; but many a man, and woman, too, brought out their small hoards to purchase extra comforts, or precious keepsakes for some beloved one.
She was rather thinner and paler; but whatever change there was in her was always an improvement in Philip's eyes, so long as she spoke graciously to him.
The shops in the town were equally busy; stores had to be purchased by the whaling masters, warm clothing of all sorts to be provided.
She liked him better, too, than she had done a year or two before, because he did not show her any of the eager attention which teased her then, although its meaning was not fully understood.
Perhaps these bustling sounds prevented Sylvia from hearing approaching footsteps coming down the brow with swift advance; at any rate, she started and suddenly stood up as some one entered the open door.
Then a door was unbolted, and Sylvia said,
But Sylvia's listening ears caught her father's voice, as he and Kester returned homewards from their day's work in the plough field; and she started away, and fled upstairs in shy affright, leaving Charley to explain his presence in the solitary kitchen to her father.
Their hearts were true and constant, whatever else might be their failings; and it is no new thing to 'damn the faults we have no mind to.' Philip wished that it was not so late, or that very evening he would have gone to keep guard over Sylvia in her mother's absence-nay, perhaps he might have seen reason to give her a warning of some kind.
And, perhaps, the elder man was not unprepared for the communication that followed.
'I can't come down again.
Now he stood there, bright and handsome as ever, with just that much timidity in his face, that anxiety as to his welcome, which gave his accost an added charm, could she but have perceived it.
Then he said-
But, if he had done so, it would have been locking the stable door after the steed was stolen.
Her life was quiet and monotonous, although hard-working; and while her hands mechanically found and did their accustomed labour, the thoughts that rose in her head always centred on Charley Kinraid, his ways, his words, his looks, whether they all meant what she would fain believe they did, and whether, meaning love at the time, such a feeling was likely to endure.
She felt his eyes were upon her, watching every motion, and grew more and more confused in her expression and behaviour.
He asked her about her mother; not sorry in his heart at Bell Robson's absence.
By degrees both Hepburn and Coulson were introduced to distant manufacturers and wholesale dealers.
Kinraid stepped forward into the firelight; his purpose of concealing what he had said to Sylvia quite melted away by the cordial welcome her father gave him the instant that he recognized him.
'Why, what's up?' said Philip, surprised at William's unusual manner, and, at the same time, rather gratified to find a reflection of his own feelings about Kinraid.
She did not come forward to meet him; she went crimson to the very roots of her hair; but that, in the waning light, he could not see; and she shook so that she felt as if she could hardly stand; but the tremor was not visible to him.
He came in, not seeing that any one was there at first; for they had never thought of lighting a candle.
'Is he here again?' said Philip; 'I didn't see him.
Coulson's face was pale with anger, but for a moment or two he seemed uncertain whether he would reply or not.
'There'll be no need o' that,' murmured Sylvia.
The widow woman was to come and stay in the house, to keep Sylvia company, during her mother's absence.
But it thus happened that they did not give the prompt assistance they were accustomed to render at such times; and Coulson had been away on some of the new expeditions devolving on him and Philip as future partners.
He wound up with a chuckle, as the thought struck him that this great piece of business, of disposing of their only child, had been concluded while his wife was away.
A basket of her father's unmended stockings was on the little round table beside her, and one was on her left hand, which she supposed herself to be mending; but from time to time she made long pauses, and looked in the fire; and yet there was but little motion of flame or light in it out of which to conjure visions.
'Bless thee, lad!
She stooped to pick up the scattered stockings and ball of worsted, and so did he; and when they rose up, he had fast hold of her hand, and her face was turned away, half ready to cry.
He made for the door.
It was 'redd up' for the afternoon; covered with a black mass of coal, over which the equally black kettle hung on the crook.
'Sylvie!
Her father was right in saying that she might not have set out for Yesterbarrow.
He sate till it grew dusk, dark; the wood fire, not gathered together by careful hands, died out into gray ashes.
'To Lunnon!' exclaimed Alice.
'Philip knows,' said Hester, and then, somehow, her voice failed her and she stopped.
Coming along it, and so meeting him, advanced Daniel Robson, in earnest talk with Charley Kinraid.
But the young man was there in presence; and John's will carried the day.
The latter was silent, brooding over the confidence which Philip had apparently received, but which was withheld from him.
Dolly Reid had done her work and gone home.
It's the Lord's doing, and luck's the devil's way o' putting it.
The window was shut again as soon as the words were spoken.
Just at that moment the little casement window of Sylvia's room was opened, and she said-
Coulson remained alone, feeling like a guilty child, but dismayed by Hester's words, even more than by his own regret at what he had said.
As the door of communication shut the three in, Coulson felt himself a little aggrieved.
He turned away, and began to whistle, as if he did not wish for any further conversation with his interrogator.
Philip set his teeth and tightened his lips at the thought of it.
He's no company for such as thee, at no time, Sylvie.'
But as soon as they had left the house, and she had covertly watched them up the brow in the field, she sate down to meditate and dream about her great happiness in being beloved by her hero, Charley Kinraid.
She hastily got up and left the room.
But he reasoned that first correct impression away with ingenious sophistry.
He was chafed and excited by Coulson's words, and the events of the day.
Can she be wearied out, and gone to sleep, he wondered.
She lifted up those eyes, usually so soft and serene; now they were full of the light of indignation shining through tears.
He took his cap and was gone, not heeding Alice's shrill inquiry as to his clothes and his ruffled shirt.
'It's fine talking,' said Coulson, half mollified, and yet not caring to show it.
'Oh, yes,' said she.
The thought of poor dead Annie Coulson flashed into Philip's mind.
Several times Jeremiah came out of the parlour in which his brother john was sitting in expectant silence, and, passing through the shop, looked up and down the market place in search of the old lame woman, who was charitably employed to deliver letters, and who must have been lamer than ever this morning, to judge from the lateness of her coming.
As all this was being revealed to Philip, he sat apparently unmoved and simply attentive.
It was apparently by john Foster's wish that Philip had been summoned.
He knew he ought to be going home, for he had much to do, and many arrangements to make.
Philip had never had so much in his hands before, and hesitated to take it, saying it was more than he should require; but they repeated, with fresh urgency, their warnings about the terrible high prices of London, till he could only resolve to keep a strict account, and bring back all that he did not expend, since nothing but his taking the whole sum would satisfy his employers.
One of these seemed of especial consequence to the good brothers. They each separately looked at the direction, and then at one another; and without a word they returned with it unread into the parlour, shutting the door, and drawing the green silk curtain close, the better to read it in privacy.
He would be patient with her; he could not be patient himself.
So they parted; but Philip had not gone many steps before his uncle called him back, Kinraid slowly loitering on meanwhile.
Probably, they would have been unwilling to incur the risk they had done on this manufacturer Dickinson's account, if it had not been that he belonged to the same denomination as themselves, and was publicly distinguished for his excellent and philanthropic character; but these letters were provocative of anxiety, especially since this morning's post had brought out the writer's full name, and various particulars showing his intimate knowledge of Dickinson's affairs.
She had talked about it to Kinraid and her father in order to cover her regret at her lover's accompanying her father to see some new kind of harpoon about which the latter had spoken.
Coulson sat still, penitent and ashamed; at length he stole a look at Hester.
He said little; but what he did say was to the point, and satisfied both brothers.
Those two words of hers, which two hours before would have been so far beneath his aspirations, had now power to re light hope, to quench reproach or blame.
Philip knew the uselessness of remaining; the need for his departure; and yet he stood still for a little time like one entranced, as if his will had lost all power to compel him to leave the place.
If she had been less occupied with her own affairs, less engrossed with deep feeling, she would have reproached him, if only in jest, for his carelessness.
Philip promised to do his best, and to write word to Robson, who, satisfied with his willingness to undertake the commission, bade him go on and see if he could not find the lass.
They had urged their correspondent to give them his name in confidence, and this morning's letter had brought it; but the name was totally unknown to them, though there seemed no reason to doubt the reality of either it or the address, the latter of which was given in full.
I'm going away; say good by.' No answer.
Daniel was deeply struck with the fact that he was talking to a man setting off for London at a day's notice.
It was settled that the next morning he was to make his way northwards to Hartlepool, whence he could easily proceed either by land or sea to Newcastle, from which place smacks were constantly sailing to London.
'Good by, Philip!'
'It's none o' my doing,' said Philip; 'there's business to be done, and john Foster says I'm to do it; and I'm to start to morrow.'
Although none but the Fosters knew the cause of their impatience for their letters, yet there was such tacit sympathy between them and those whom they employed, that Hepburn, Coulson, and Hester were all much relieved when the old woman at length appeared with her basket of letters.
The letters hinted at the utter insolvency of this manufacturer.
'Sylvie, Sylvie,' cried poor Philip, as his offended cousin rushed past him, and upstairs to her little bedroom, where he heard the sound of the wooden bolt flying into its place.
Several times that day, as he perceived Coulson's jealous sullenness, he thought in his heart that the consequence of the excessive confidence for which Coulson envied him was a burden from which he would be thankful to be relieved.
In his own mind he forestalled the instructions of his masters, and was silently in advance of john Foster's plans and arrangements, while he appeared to listen to all that was said with quiet business like attention.
Certain circumstances were mentioned regarding the transactions between the Fosters and this manufacturer, which could be known only to those who were in the confidence of one or the other; and to the Fosters the man was, as has been said, a perfect stranger.
In fact, he was giving all his mind to understanding the probabilities of the case, leaving his own feelings in the background till his intellect should have done its work.
Is she at home?' he asked of her father.
Philip, indeed, was quite idle when john Foster opened the parlour door, and, half doubtfully, called him into the room.
Philip, indeed, had nothing more to say to him: he had learned all he wanted to know.
Up the little wooden stairs he went, where he had never been before, to the small square landing, almost filled up with the great chest for oat cake.
At length he raised his stiffened body, and stood up, dizzy.
Secure and exultant, his broad, handsome, weather bronzed face was as great a contrast to Philip's long, thoughtful, sallow countenance, as his frank manner was to the other's cold reserve.
Suddenly a light shone down into Philip's mind.
'I'd like to bid good by to Sylvie.
Surprise, and curiosity, and wonder; nothing more, as Philip's instinct told him.
Of the number of letters that arrived in Monkshaven, the Fosters, shopkeepers and bankers, had the largest share.
He would speak to her of his passionate attachment, before he left, for an uncertain length of time, and the certain distance of London.
'Not to live there: only to stay for some time.
With a heavy, heavy heart he creaked down the stairs, felt for his cap, and left the house.
Yet once again-'Good by, Sylvie, and God bless yo'!
Jeremiah, the less energetic and decided brother, was still discussing the propriety of the step when Philip entered.
'I'm not going by York; I'm going by a Newcastle smack.'
The resolution he had deliberately formed of not speaking to Sylvia on the subject of his love till he could announce to her parents the fact of his succession to Fosters' business, and till he had patiently, with long continuing and deep affection, worked his way into her regard, was set aside during the present walk.
His heart beating, his busy mind rehearsing the probable coming scene, he turned into the field path that led to Haytersbank.
His feelings, disturbed on this one point, shook his judgment off its balance on another.
His voice was changed as he spoke next.
'Liking has nought to do with it.'
I'm sorry I vexed yo'.'
As it was, she scarcely took in the sense of his words.
There was no reply.
Philip had the satisfaction of feeling himself employed on a mission which would call out his powers, and yet not exceed them.
Could he be playing the same game with Sylvia?
A minute ago Philip and he were on a level of ignorance, from which the former was evidently going to be raised. But he soon returned to his usual state of acquiescence in things as they were, which was partly constitutional, and partly the result of his Quaker training.
She stooped for something she had dropped, and came up red as a rose.
He waited patiently.
But fortunately there was little doing in the shop.
I shall be back, I reckon, in a month or so.'
'You see, Sylvie, I've had a deal to think on; before long I intend telling yo' all about it; just now I'm not free to do it.
At the time, in his agitation, he saw, but did not affix any meaning to it, that the half of some silver coin was among the contents thus turned over before the box was locked.
No reply.
Kinraid now seemed in a hurry; but Philip was stung with curiosity to ascertain his movements, and suddenly addressed him:
'Well?'
'Luck!' said Alice, turning sharp round on him.
CHAPTER seventeen
Hester said nothing.
Philip paid no attention to this half uttered sentence; he was eager to tell Coulson, as far as he could do so without betraying his master's secret, how many drawbacks there were to his proposed journey, in the responsibility which it involved, and his unwillingness to leave Monkshaven: he said-
Sylvia's galloping thoughts were pulled suddenly up by his silence; she felt that he wanted her to say something, but she could think of nothing besides an ambiguous-
When he was once more behind the counter, he had leisure enough for consideration as far as Coulson could give it him.
'I see,' said Philip: '"Robinson, Side, Newcastle, can give all requisite information."'
Yet it seemed as though he could not stir.
'Sylvie!
He breathed hard for a minute, and then knocked at the door of Sylvia's room.
It's clean gone out of my mind,' said Philip, with true regret.
Alice was away, looking up Philip's things for his journey.
Robson was fumbling among some dirty papers he had in an old leather case, which he had produced out of his pocket.
'What then? and yo'r mother away.
He loved her, and that was enough.
Not a sound heard. 'Sylvie!' (a little louder, and less hoarsely spoken).
Sylvia did not want his penitence, did not care for her ribbon, was troubled by his earnestness of manner-but he knew nothing of all that; he only knew that she whom he loved had asked him to do something for her, and he had neglected it; so, anxious to be excused and forgiven, he went on with the apology she cared not to hear.
'No, I shan't,' he replied, shortly.
He sate still in despair, his head buried in his two hands.
It seemed from his account to Philip (explanatory of what he, in advance of his brother's slower judgment, thought to be a necessary step), that the Fosters had for some time received anonymous letters, warning them, with distinct meaning, though in ambiguous terms, against a certain silk manufacturer in Spitalfields, with whom they had had straightforward business dealings for many years; but to whom they had latterly advanced money.
They had stopped talking; they had seen him already, or his impulse would have been to dodge behind the wall and avoid them; even though one of his purposes in going to Haytersbank had been to bid his uncle farewell.
After much perplexed consultation, john had hit upon the plan of sending Hepburn to London to make secret inquiries respecting the true character and commercial position of the man whose creditors, not a month ago, they had esteemed it an honour to be.
You have the Single tax papers.
The great Dailies were thought grey; not wicked-only general and vague.
The first Propagandists, then, did not stand up to the Official Press as equals.
And there went with it a mass of ex centric stuff.
The "organs of opinion" professed a genteel ignorance of that idea which was most widespread, most intense, and most formative.
From the Socialist point of view the leading fact about the insincerity of the great official papers is that this insincerity is Capitalist; just as from a Catholic point of view the leading fact about it was, and is, that it is anti Catholic.
To distort, to lie?
But such a Free Press in defence of religion (the pioneer of all the Free Press) arose in Ireland and in France and elsewhere.
The editor became (and now is) a mere mouthpiece of the proprietor. Editors succeed each other rapidly.
Now from this fact arises a consideration of great importance to our subject.
The Free Press in its beginnings did not attack as an enemy.
C
It had disappeared by the nineteen hundreds.
Though, however, certain of the Socialist Free Papers thus boldly took up a standpoint of moral equality with the others, their attitude was exceptional.
True, the editor, being revocable and poor, could not pretend to full political power.
They crept in as inferiors, or rather as open ex centrics. For Victorian England and Third Empire France falsely proclaimed the "representative" quality of the Official Press.
It only timidly claimed to be heard.
It was humble.
A
At last-like most rapid developments-it exceeded itself.
Only a small number of people were acquainted with such particular truths.
It came quickly but thoroughly.
"Later," these founders of the Free Press seemed to say, "we may convert the mass to our views, but, for the moment, we are admittedly a clique: an exceptional body with the penalties attaching to such." They said this although the whole life of France is at least as Catholic as the life of Great Britain is Plutocratic, or the life of Switzerland Democratic.
Stupid (like all people given up to gain), he was muddle headed about the distinction between a large circulation and a circulation small, but appealing to the rich.
He would prefer to retain his income, persuade his readers to buy poison, and remain free (personally) from touching the stuff he recommended for pay.
Many are directly ordered by him.
It is already to day the capital fact of our whole political system.
He chose the former course.
It was undreamt of but a few years ago.
No policy is attempted until it is ascertained that the newspaper owner is in favour of it.
But on the balance the advertising interest being wider spread was the stronger, and what you got was a sort of imposition, often quite conscious and direct, of advertising power over the Press; and this was, as I have said, not only negative (that was long obvious) but, at last, positive.
But he certainly could not print an article against them, nor even an article describing how they were made, without losing a great part of his income, directly; and, perhaps, indirectly, the whole of it, from the annoyance caused to other advertisers, who would note his independence and fear friction in their own case.
Few are proffered without first consulting his wishes.
In pure Economics exchange is exactly balanced by the respective advantages of the exchangers; just as in pure dynamics you have the parallelogram of forces.
An individual newspaper owner might, for instance, have the greatest possible dislike for the trade in patent medicines.
The newspaper owner and the advertiser, then, were intermixed.
As with patent medicines so with any other matter whatsoever that was advertised.
He might himself have suffered acute physical pain through the imprudent absorption of one of those quack drugs.
For another, there was no clear cut distinction between the Capitalism that owned newspapers and the Capitalism that advertised.
There is always this psychological, or, if you will, artistic element in exchange.
He would refuse advertisements of luxuries to a paper read by half the wealthier class if he had heard in the National Liberal Club, or some such place, that the paper was "in bad taste."
In the first place, if advertisement had come to be the stand by of a newspaper, the Capitalist owning the sheet would necessarily consider his revenue from advertisement before anything else.
He would not advertise in papers which he thought might by their publication of opinion ultimately hurt Capitalism as a whole; still less in those whose opinions might affect his own private fortune adversely.
Parliament is full of it, and it runs newspapers only as one of its activities-all of which need the suggestion of advertisement.
He was compelled then to respect his advertisers as his paymasters.
How did such a catastrophe come about?
A Prime Minister is made or deposed by the owner of a group of newspapers, not by popular vote or by any other form of open authority.
The same man who owned "The Daily Times" was a shareholder in Jones's Soap or Smith's Pills.
It is the advent of the great newspaper owner as the true governing power in the political machinery of the State, superior to the officials in the State, nominating ministers and dismissing them, imposing policies, and, in general, usurping sovereignty-all this secretly and without responsibility.
Let us halt at this phase in the development of the thing to consider certain other changes which were on the point of appearance, and why they were on the point of appearance.
The type is the common modern type.
But there is now a graver corruption at work even than this always negative and sometimes positive power of the advertiser.
On the contrary, it deliberately side tracks any vital discussion that sincere conviction may have forced upon the public, and spoils the scent with false issues.
Here I touch the core of my matter.
Is not everything which the regime desires to be suppressed, suppressed?
It warps and depletes public information.
The current simulacrum of criticism apparently attacking some portion of the regime, never deals with matters vital to its prestige.
"The New Age" was, I think, the pioneer in the matter.
Nothing of that kind exists now, of course, in the deeper corruption of modern Europe-least of all in England.
Under certain forms of arbitrary government in Continental Europe ministers once made use of picked and rare newspapers to express their views, and these newspapers came to be called "The Official Press." It was a crude method, and has been long abandoned even by the simpler despotic forms of government.
I propose to examine the nature of that movement which I call "The Free Press," to analyse the disabilities under which it suffers, and to conclude with my conviction that it is, in spite of its disabilities, not only a growing force, but a salutary one, and, in a certain measure, a conquering one.
They know that their old power of observation over public servants has slipped from them. They suspect that the known gross corruption of Public life, and particularly of the House of Commons, is entrenched behind a conspiracy of silence on the part of those very few who have the power to inform them.
With this I pass from the just denunciation of evil to the exposition of what is good.
It still maintains a pre-eminent position.
This transitional state of affairs (for I hope to show that it is only transitional) is a very great evil.
They serve a clique whom they should expose, and denounce and betray the generality-that is the State-for whose sake the salaried public servants should be perpetually watched with suspicion and sharply kept in control.
It prevents the just criticism of public servants.
They do not really criticize.
Its remedy was an opposition to be headed by a lawyer.
Their number will increase.
There are, among such gutter snipes, thousands whose luck ends in the native gutter, half a dozen whose luck lands them into millions, one or two at most who, on the top of such a career go crazy with the ambition of the parvenu and propose to direct the State.
I am right.
The regime under which we are now living is that of a Plutocracy which has gradually replaced the old Aristocratic tradition of England. This Plutocracy-a few wealthy interests-in part controls, in part is expressed by, is in part identical with the professional politicians, and it has in the existing Capitalist Press an ally similar to that "Official Press" which continental nations knew in the past.
The new governing Press is an oligarchy which still works "in with" the just less new parliamentary oligarchy.
This gives them so distinct a character, of parliamentary falsehood, and that falsehood is so clearly dictated by their connection with executive power that they merit the title "Official."
Another clamours for the elimination of enemy financial power in the affairs of this country, and yet says not a word upon the auditing of the secret Party Funds!
"I really don't understand you, ma'am," said poor dr Bullfrog.
I never built one so in my life, and I never have headaches.
They pulled the young checkerberry before it even had time to blossom, rooted up the sassafras shrubs and gnawed their roots, fired off guns at the birds, and on several occasions, when old dr Bullfrog was leading a concert, had dashed in and broken up the choir by throwing stones.
"No, no, he won't.
Now you complain always that your head aches whenever I call upon you.
She comes and bores me to death with talking, and then goes off and mistakes what she has been saying for what I said."
You own you are not well; you are subject to headaches; and every physician will tell you that a tilting motion disorders the stomach and acts upon the brain.
I confess this was very bad in Tommy; but then birds are no better than men in domestic matters, and sometimes will take the most unreasonable courses, if a meddlesome Magpie gets her claw into their nest.
Magpie, I perfectly agree with you.'"
Let me alone.
"But I tell you, mrs Magpie, I don't want any interference between my husband and me, and I will not have it," says mrs Oriole, with her little round eyes flashing with indignation.
Ask old dr Kite.
"Don't put yourself in a passion, my dear; the more you talk, the more sure I am that your nervous system is running down, or you wouldn't forget good manners in this way.
It is quite my duty to take strong ground, and show that I cannot be dictated to."
Tommy Oriole, to say the truth, had as good a heart as ever beat under bird's feathers; but then he had a weakness for concerts and general society, because he was held to be, by all odds, the handsomest bird in the woods, and sung like an angel; and so the truth was he didn't confine himself so much to the domestic nest as Tom Titmouse or Billy Wren.
"But my husband prefers this style of building."
"No, I have no time to attend lectures.
"How do you know?
I shall speak to him about it.
"I say, my dear, if you will persist in gossiping over our private family matters with that old Mother Magpie-"
"The fact is," quoth Tommy, "I am a society bird, and Nature has marked out for me a course beyond the range of the commonplace, and my wife must learn to accommodate.
"Madam," said dr Bullfrog, with all that energy of tone for which he was remarkable, "I don't believe it,--I CAN'T believe it.
Old Mother Magpie was about the busiest character in the forest.
I was talking with him about your case only yesterday, and says he, 'mrs
Just try the scales.
"O mrs Magpie, pray don't speak to my husband; he will think I've been complaining."
"I try to, all I can; but she won't BE cut."
He came up into the garden, and established himself under a burdock, and began to practise Italian scales.
As to your voice, your manner of living has a great deal to do with it.
"Well, neighbour, how unreasonable people are!
So, after this, Tommy Oriole went to rather more concerts, and spent less time at home than ever he did before, which was all that Mother Magpie effected in that quarter.
"But, my dear," piped mrs Oriole timidly, "the Orioles always have built in this manner, and it suits our constitution."
Who would have thought that the youth of our generation should have no more consideration for established merit?
"I mistake!
"There you go, Paddy go donk, Paddy go donk -umph-chunk," some rascal of a boy would shout, while poor old Bullfrog's yellow spectacles would be bedewed with tears of honest indignation.
I understand just how to say the thing.
The result was, that poor old dr Bullfrog, instead of being considered as a respectable old bore, got himself universally laughed at for aping fashionable manners.
And so poor mr Bullfrog was persuaded to forego his pleasant little cottage under the cat tails, where his green spectacles and honest round back had excited, even in the minds of the boys, sentiments of respect and compassion.
"But you must CUT her."
"Oh, as to that, if you take things in time, and listen to my advice," said Mother Magpie, "we may yet pull you through.
If she has a brilliant husband, whose success gratifies her ambition and places her in a distinguished public position, she must pay something for it.
No, no, my good friend; I never make mistakes.
"That's only because he isn't properly instructed.
Come up on the bank and learn to perch, as we birds do.
She bustled off down to Water Dock Lane, where, as we said in a former narrative, lived the old music teacher, dr Bullfrog. The poor old doctor was a simple minded, good, amiable creature, who had played the double bass and led the forest choir on all public occasions since nobody knows when.
"It's enough to make a bird swear," said Tommy Oriole.
I never could hit the high notes."
Latterly some youngsters had arisen who sneered at his performances as behind the age.
But the tragedy for the poor old music teacher grew even more melancholy in its termination; for one day, as he was sitting disconsolately under a currant bush in the garden, practising his poor old notes in a quiet way, THUMP came a great blow of a hoe, which nearly broke his back.
You must have made a mistake."
I always did tell you that your passion for water injured your singing.
To say the truth, my wife was all well enough content till old Mother Magpie interfered.
You must alter your style a little,--adapt it to modern times.
It's all on account of this way of swinging and swaying about in such an absurd manner."
Pray, did you ever attend dr Kite's lectures on the nervous system?"
"Depend upon it, my dear," Mother Magpie would say, "that this way of building your nest, swinging like an old empty stocking from a bough, isn't at all the thing.
"Dear madam, consider my voice.
Everybody now is a little touched with the operatic fever, and there's Tommy Oriole has been to New Orleans and brought back a touch of the artistic.
What I know, I know certainly.
How can you tell what agrees with your constitution unless you try?
"What! you haven't heard of a committee that is going to call on you, to ask you to resign the care of the parish music?"
"Bless me, we shall all be ruined!" said mrs Bullfrog; "my poor husband-"
It's all practice; Tommy Oriole says so.
"Here, here, Wasp, my boy."
But you must know that there is a great difference between being busy and being industrious.
My husband always sits regularly half the time, that I may have time to go about and exercise."
What a fright for a poor, quiet, old Bullfrog, as little wiry, wicked Wasp came at him, barking and yelping.
"My dear, I don't gossip.
You'd better take my advice, for I understand just what to do,"--and away sails Mother Magpie; and presently young Oriole comes home all in a flutter.
MOTHER MAGPIE'S MISCHIEF
This was not the worst of it.
"A fiddle on your constitution!
She was always full of everybody's business but her own-up and down, here and there, everywhere but in her own nest, knowing everyone's affairs, telling what everybody had been doing or ought to do, and ready to cast her advice gratis at every bird and beast of the woods.
He jumped with all his force sheer over a patch of bushes into the river, and swam back to his old home among the cat tails.
"I wish I might help you some time."
"Come on," said the Biggest Little Turtle.
"They didn't wait for me," he said.
He wanted to see what they would do, so he looked out of his right eye at the ten brothers and sisters on that side, and out of his left eye at the nine brothers and sisters on that side.
"I thought you were when I heard you trying to make the others wait.
Then one of these great animals stooped over and picked him up, and held him bottom side uppermost and rapped on that side, which was flat; and on the other side, which was rounded; and stared at him with two great eyes.
You know the Tree Frog had been carried away when he was young, before he came to live with the meadow people, so he knew how to be sorry for the Slow Little Turtle.
When he did open his eyes, his relatives were sitting around looking at him, and he remembered all that had happened before he slept.
And you," she added, turning to his brothers and sisters, "must be patient with him.
The Tree Frog hopped along ahead to show the way, and the Turtle followed until they reached a place from which they could see the pond. "Good night!" said the Tree Frog.
One slow little fellow stopped to look at the broken shells, stubbed one of his front toes on a large piece and then sat down until it should stop aching. "Wait for me!" he called out to his brothers and sisters.
"I'm here!" he cried joyfully, poking first one and then another of them with his head.
This was the first time he had ever seen the moon, for, except when they are laying eggs, Turtles usually sleep at night.
The Mother Turtle stretched her head this way and that until there was hardly a wrinkle left in her neck skin, she was so eager to see them all.
"I did hope," said the Mother Turtle, "that I might have one family without such a child in it.
She was so proud that she could not help talking about them.
"I'm coming in a minute."
"Yes," said a fine old fellow who was floating near her, "a row of their mothers!" He was a Turtle whom she had never liked very well, but now she began to think that he was rather agreeable after all.
It is too bad."
The sun has been so hot lately that I was sure you would do well."
That makes him miss his share of good things, and then he is quite certain to be cross and think it is somebody else's fault."
"If you will only learn to keep up with your brothers and sisters," she said "I shall not be sorry that the boys carried you off."
THE SLOW LITTLE MUD TURTLE
"I'm not going away."
"Yes," she said, "you certainly are, for I saw you scrambling out of the sand a little while ago, and you came from the very place where I laid my eggs and covered them during the first really warm nights this year.
This was not because they were rude or bashful, but because they did not know what to say.
"You just wait and see," said the Slow Little Turtle.
When the twenty little Mud Turtles broke their egg shells one hot summer day, and poked their way up through the warm sand in which they had been buried, they looked almost as much alike as so many raindrops.
Next the other great animal took him and turned him over and rapped on his shells and stared at him.
I remember so well my first slow child-and how he-" She began to cry, and since she could not easily get her forefeet to her eyes, she sprawled to the pond and swam off with only her head and a little of her upper shell showing above the water.
He was sure his mother was going to scold the other Turtle children for leaving him.
It was not until the sun went down that the boys let the Slow Little Turtle go.
There are my children!
He can catch up."
He lay perfectly still for a long, long time, and when he thought they had forgotten about him he tried to run away.
So they sprawled along until they came to a place where they could sit in a row on an old log, and they climbed onto it and sat just close enough together and not at all too close.
She could see their strong little pointed tails too, and their webbed feet with a stout claw on each toe.
Never!"
He would have liked to draw them in too, but of course he couldn't do that.
The other little Turtles waited, but when his toe was comfortable again and he started toward them, he met a very interesting Snail and talked a while with him.
"After this we will call him 'The Quick Little Turtle.'"
The little Mud Turtles looked at each other and didn't say a word.
"Does my shell look very bad?" he cried. "I wish I could see it.
Something always happens to pond people who are too slow.
The pond people looked at each other and laughed.
She drew a long Mud Turtle breath and answered her own question.
"Never mind me," said the Tree Frog.
Did you ever see a finer family?
One beautiful sunshiny afternoon, when most of the twenty little Turtles were sitting on a floating log by the edge of the pond, their mother was with some of her friends on another log near by.
I cannot help loving even a slow child who is cross, if he is hatched from one of my eggs, yet it makes me sad-very, very sad."
She looked often at her children, and thought how handsome their rounded up back shells were in the sunshine with the little red and yellow markings showing on the black.
The boys carried him to the edge of the meadow and put him down on the grass.
It is all right, you know, to be a Land Tortoise when your father and mother are Land Tortoises, and these cousins of the Turtles look so much like them that some people cannot tell them apart.
"I was coming right along but they wouldn't wait.
Nothing happened to him, and so he grew careless and made people wait for him just because he was not quite ready to go with them, or because he wanted to do this or look at that or talk to some other person.
That is because they forget that the Tortoises live on land, have higher back shells, and move very, very slowly. Turtles live more in the water and can move quickly if they will.
This did not really give him pain, yet, as he said afterward, "It hurts almost as much to think you are going to be hurt, as it does to be hurt."
"That is queer!" they said.
"Why didn't you Turtles wait for me?" he grumbled.
But there is always one Slow Little Turtle who lags behind and wants the others to wait for him.
He could do this very easily, because his eyes were not on the front of his head like those of some people, but one on each side.
The Mother Turtle who was sunning herself on the bank near by, said to her friends, "Why!
"The first year I had only a few children, the next year I had more, and so it has gone-every year a few more children than the year before-until now I never know quite how many I do have.
He sprawled off the end of his log and slid into the water, and all his brothers and sisters followed him except the Slow Little Turtle.
I believe I will go over and speak to them."
"You do not want to," said his mother, "but you will not be with us long unless you learn to keep up with the rest.
Then the Slow Little Turtle came hurrying over the sand with a rather cross look in his eyes and putting his feet down a little harder than he needed to-quite as though he were out of patience about something.
She was just noticing how beautifully the skin wrinkled on his neck, when she heard a splash and saw two terrible great two legged animals wading into the pond from the shore.
The Slow Little Turtle felt the ten brothers and sisters on his right side looking at him out of their left eyes, and the nine brothers and sisters on his left side looking at him out of their right eyes.
We shall not have him with us long."
His mother came and leaned her shell lovingly against his.
Oh, I am so glad to get back!
He drew in his head and his tail and his legs, until all they could see was his rounded upper shell, his shell side walls, and the yellow edge of his flat lower shell.
"What do you mean?" asked the Slow Little Turtle, peeping out from between his shells.
She looked so stern that the Slow Little Turtle didn't dare finish what he had begun to say, yet down in his little Turtle heart he thought, "Now they are going to catch it!"
"I don't want to get up." And again he fell fast asleep.
"Why are you not up here with your brothers and sisters?" she asked suddenly of the Slow Little Turtle, who was trying to make a place for himself on the log.
Then he was very, very tired, but he wanted so much to get back to his home in the pond that he started at once by moonlight.
The Biggest Little Turtle moved without awakening.
The Slow Little Turtle was really frightened by what his mother had said, and for a few days he tried to keep up with the others.
Just then the Mother Turtle came up.
"Boys!" she cried, "Boys!" And she sprawled off the end of her log and slid into the water, all her friends following her.
After that he was always the first to slip from the log to the water if anything scared them; and when, one day, a strange Turtle from another pond came to visit, he said to the Turtles who had always lived there, "Why do you call that young fellow with the marked shell 'The Slow Little Turtle?' He is the quickest one in his family."
The Biggest Little Turtle saw these great animals coming toward him.
This is why other Turtles sometimes make fun of a slow brother by calling him a Land Tortoise.
At the edge of the pond the Slow Little Turtle found his nineteen brothers and sisters sound asleep.
Then they laughed and picked him up again, and one of them took something sharp and shiny and cut marks into his upper shell.
He was thinking over and over, "Something has happened!
Most of the young Mud Turtles crawled quickly out of the sand and broken shells, and began drying themselves in the sunshine.
"Good night!" said the Turtle.
And he was as good as his word.
"I tell you I'm not hungry," he murmured.
I was telling your father only yesterday that it was about time for you to hatch.
In eighteen thirty four, I think, was the first rioting, the sacking of mr Tappan's house, in Rose Street.
"Why," said he, "I must have one of them in my school." He took me to a class where I found one of the young men, to whom I gave the needful information.
He added, "I thought it right to say this." I then spoke to the crowd.
I am a blacksmith, and have worked six months in one shop, in New York, with white journeymen, not one of whom believes, I suppose, that I am a colored man."
They went out all over the land, and were instrumental in diffusing more truth, perhaps, about the dreadful system of American Slavery, than was accomplished in any other way.
One Sunday morning, I received a letter, informing me that an officer belonging to savannah georgia, had started for New York, in pursuit of two young men, of nineteen or twenty, who had been slaves of one of the principal physicians of the place, and who had escaped and were supposed to be in New York.
These facts I must give without reference to date, as I will not tax my memory with perhaps a vain attempt to narrate them in order.
The mob brought all his furniture out, and piling it up in the street, set it on fire. The family were absent at the time.
To my inquiry, have you parents living, and also brothers and sisters, she replied: "There is no child but myself." "Were not your parents kind to you, and did you not love them?" "Yes I love them very much."
These agents were entertained by abolitionists in the city, and many of us had two or three of them in each of our families for a couple of weeks.
mr Lane, mr Tappan's personal friend who labored with him in the Anti Slavery Cause, and especially in the Vigilance Committee for many years, from serious affection of his eyes was not prepared to furnish as full a sketch of his (mr
They were remarkably fine young men, and it seemed a special Providence that I should find them in such a large city, and direct them to escape from their pursuer, within one hour after I left my house in Brooklyn.
The letter requested me to find them and give them warning.
On inquiry, I learned that they had come from a southern city. After most extraordinary efforts, it seemed that they had while in Slavery, secretly banded together, and put themselves under the guidance of an intrepid conductor, whom they had hired to conduct them without the limits of the city, in the evening, when the police force was changed.
The "Vigilance Committee," for aiding and befriending fugitives, of which I was treasurer for many years, had no better or warmer friend than he.
They came through Pennsylvania and New Jersey to my office.
t's) labors as was desirable.
ANTHONY LANE.
New York, november eighth eighteen seventy one.
I stated my errand to him, with a description of the young men.
As there was no time to be lost, I concluded to go over to New York, notwithstanding the doubtfulness of attempting to find them in so large a city.
In answer to my inquiries, this girl told me the name of the southern city, and the names of the persons who had held her as a slave, and the mode of her escape, etc
Through mr Tappan's influence and extensive correspondence abroad, many remittances came for the help of the "Vigilance Committee," from England and Scotland, and at one time, an extensive invoice of useful and fancy articles, in several large boxes, was received from the Glasgow ladies, sufficient to furnish a large bazaar or fair, which was held in Brooklyn, for the benefit of the Committee.
I then went to the colored school, superintended by Rev. c b Bay.
However, feeling somewhat relieved to day, from my paralysis, owing to the cheering sunshine and the favor of my Almighty Preserver, I will try to do what I can, in dictating a few anecdotes to my amanuensis, which may afford you and your readers some gratification.
On going into the room, I saw them lying about on the bales and boxes of clothing destined for our various missionary stations, fatigued, as they doubtless were, after their sleepless and protracted struggle for freedom.
He soon notified his brother, who lived in another part of the city, and both put themselves out of harm's way.
one.
Abolitionists, white and colored, both in slave and free States, entered into extensive correspondence, set their wits at work to devise various expedients for the relief from bondage and transmission to the free States and to Canada, of many of the most enterprising bondmen and bondwomen.
At first, we sent them to Canada, but after a while, sent them only to Syracuse, and the centre of the State.
"I was walking near the water," she said, "when a white sailor spoke to me, and after a few questions, offered to hide me on board his vessel and conduct me safely to New York, if I would come to him in the evening.
"My father," said I, "has long been one of your first doctors, and do you think it right for him to sell my mother and his children in this way?"
He was very solicitous for their welfare, and that the colored people who were free should be enlightened and educated. He opened a Sunday school for colored adults, which was numerously attended, in West Broadway, New York, and with a few others, devoted the most of the Sabbath to their teaching.
It was not surprising, for so fair was his complexion, that with the aid of a brown wig, after he had cut off his hair, he was completely disguised.
The agent of the Underground Rail Road in New York, took charge of them, and forwarded them to Albany, and by different agencies to Canada.
When he and his brother Arthur, assembled the seventy anti slavery agents, who were thereafter, like "firebrands," scattered all over the land, they held their meetings in this room.
He was almost always at their meetings, which were known only to "the elect," for we dared not hold them too publicly, as we almost always had some of the travelers toward the "north star" present, whose masters or their agents were frequently in the city, in hot pursuit.
I did so, and was hid and fed by him, and on landing at New York, he conducted me to mrs Smith's house, where I am now staying."
We soon made our escape, and are now both in the city.
Original American abolitionists, who met the scorn and odium, the imputed shame and obloquy, the frowns and cold shoulders which they bore through all the dark days of Slavery, now see and feel their reward in some measure; to be completed only, when they shall hear the plaudit: "Inasmuch as ye have done it to the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me."
Although lately afflicted by disease, mr Tappan still lives in the enjoyment of all his faculties, and a good measure of health, and in his advanced years, sees now some of the great results of his life-long efforts for the restoration and maintenance of human rights.
mr Tappan was, therefore, requested to furnish a few reminiscences from his own store house, which he kindly did as follows:
I wrote notices to be read in the colored churches and colored Sabbath schools, which I delivered in person.
I recollect that one morning on reaching my office (that of the treasurer of the American Missionary Association), my assistant told me that in the inner room were eighteen fugitives, men, women and children, who had arrived that morning from the South in one company.
A new odium, likewise, by these representations, was attempted to be thrown upon Buckingham.
Charles alleged, as the reason of this measure, certain seditious expressions, which, he said, had, in their accusation of the duke, dropped from these members.
"I pray you, consider," said he, "what these new counsels are, or may be.
No new crime had since been discovered.
This article, together with the new impositions laid on merchandise by james, constituted near half of the crown revenues; and by depriving the king of these resources, they would have reduced him to total subjection and dependence.
The army was landed, and a fort taken; but the undisciplined soldiers, finding store of wine, could not be restrained from the utmost excesses.
Even after Charles's accession he despaired not.
To such deep perfidy, to such unbounded usurpations, it was necessary to oppose a proper firmness and resolution.
I fear to declare those that I conceive.
Sir Edward Cecil, lately created Viscount Wimbleton, was intrusted with the command.
He submitted to the king's commands of remaining at his country seat, and of absenting himself from parliament.
He sailed immediately for Cadiz, and found the bay full of Spanish ships of great value.
Provoked at these repeated instances of vigor, which the court denominated contumacy, Charles ordered his attorney general to enter an accusation of high treason against him.
After the most diligent inquiry, prompted by the greatest malice, the smallest appearance of guilt could not be fixed upon him. What idea, he asked, must all mankind entertain of his honor, should he sacrifice his innocent friend to pecuniary considerations?
His mother, who had great influence over him, was a professed Catholic; his wife was not free from suspicion: and the indulgence given to Catholics was of course supposed to proceed entirely from his credit and authority.
It consisted of eighty vessels, great and small; and carried an board an army of ten thousand men.
Many trials he made to regain the good opinion of his master; but finding them all fruitless, and observing Charles to be entirely governed by Buckingham, his implacable enemy, he resolved no longer to keep any measures with the court.
The history of England had never hitherto afforded one instance where any great movement or revolution had proceeded from the lower house.
It is remarkable that the commons, though so much at a loss to find articles of charge against Buckingham, never adopted Bristol's accusation, or impeached the duke for his conduct in the Spanish treaty, the most blamable circumstance in his whole life.
The never failing cry of Popery here served them in stead.
He either neglected to attack these ships or attempted it preposterously.
To day the commons pretend to wrest his minister from him: to morrow they will attack some branch of his prerogative.
Further stay appearing fruitless, they were reembarked; and the fleet put to sea with an intention of intercepting the Spanish galleons.
He had promised to the last house of commons a redress of this religious grievance: but he was apt, in imitation of his father, to imagine that the parliament, when they failed of supplying his necessities, had, on their part, freed him from the obligation of a strict performance.
What further authority should he retain in the nation, were he capable, in the beginning of his reign, to give, in so signal an instance, such matter of triumph to his enemies, and discouragement to his adherents?
Besides a more stately style which Charles in general affected to this parliament than to the last, he went so far, in a message, as to threaten the commons that, if they did not furnish him with supplies, he should be obliged to try new "counsels." This language was sufficiently clear: yet lest any ambiguity should remain, Sir Dudley Carleton, vice chamberlain, took care to explain it.
The supply was only voted by the commons.
A precarious liberty, the commons thought, which was to be preserved by unlimited complaisance, was no liberty at all.
All encroachments on supreme power could only be resisted successfully on the first attempt.
And it was necessary, while yet in their power, to secure the constitution by such invincible barriers, that no king or minister should ever, for the future, dare to speak such a language to any parliament, or even entertain such a project against them.
Under color of redressing grievances, which during this short reign could not be very numerous, they were to proceed in regulating and controlling every part of government which displeased them; and if the king either cut them short in this undertaking, or refused compliance with their demands, he must not expect any supply from the commons.
Though the ill success of his enterprises diminished his authority, and showed every day more plainly the imprudence of the Spanish war; though the increase of his necessities rendered him more dependent, and more exposed to the encroachments of the commons, he was resolved to try once more that regular and constitutional expedient for supply.
All the other complaints against him were mere pretences.
Perhaps, too, a little political art, which at that time he practised, was much trusted to.
The earl of Suffolk, chancellor of the university of Cambridge, dying about this time, Buckingham, though lying under impeachment was yet, by means of court interest, chosen in his place.
The ill humor of the commons, thus wantonly irritated by the court, and finding no gratification in the legal impeachment of Buckingham, sought other objects on which it might exert itself.
By their remonstrances, and promises, and protestations, they had engaged the crown in a war. As soon as they saw a retreat impossible, without waiting for new incidents, without covering themselves with new pretences, they immediately deserted him, and refused him all reasonable supply.
A little before, he was the idol of the people.
And as their rank, both considered in a body and as individuals, was but the second in the kingdom, nothing less than fatal experience could engage the English princes to pay a due regard to the inclinations of that formidable assembly.
From the whole, the great imprudence of the duke evidently appears, and the sway of his ungovernable passions; but it would be difficult to collect thence any action which, in the eye of the law, could be deemed a crime, much less could subject him to the penalty of treason.
As long as james lived, Bristol, secure of the concealed favor of that monarch, had expressed all duty and obedience; in expectation that an opportunity would offer of reinstating himself in his former credit and authority.
The beauty of his person, the gracefulness of his air, the splendor of his equipage, his fine taste in dress, festivals, and carousals, corresponded to the prepossessions entertained in his favor: the affability of his behavior, the gayety of his manners, the magnificence of his expense, increased still further the general admiration which was paid him.
A fleet of a hundred sail, and an army of seven thousand men, were fitted out for the invasion of France, and both of them intrusted to the command of the duke, who was altogether unacquainted both with land and sea service.
When the duke was making preparations for a new embassy to Paris, a message was sent him from Louis, that he must not think of such a journey.
But a priest, past middle age, of a severe character, and occupied in the most extensive plans of ambition or vengeance, was but an unequal match, in that contest, for a young courtier, entirely disposed to gayety and gallantry.
But his great success at Paris proved as fatal as his former failure at Madrid.
Though Charles probably bore but small favor to the Hugonots, who so much resembled the Puritans in discipline and worship, in religion and politics, he yet allowed himself to be gained by these arguments, enforced by the solicitations of Buckingham.
Soubize, who, with his brother, the duke of Rohan, was the leader of the Hugonot faction, was at that time in London, and strongly solicited Charles to embrace the protection of these distressed religionists.
At the time when Charles married by proxy the princess Henrietta, the duke of Buckingham had been sent to France, in order to grace the nuptials, and conduct the new queen into England.
To these reasons the commons remained inexorable.
Great murmurs and discontents still prevailed in parliament.
Strongly prejudiced in favor of the duke, whom he had heard so highly extolled in parliament, he could not conjecture the cause of so sudden an alteration in their opinions.
As the duke knew that authority alone would not suffice, he employed much art and many subtleties to engage them to obedience; and a rumor which was spread, that peace had been concluded between the French king and the Hugonots, assisted him in his purpose.
It is not to be doubted, but spleen and ill will against the duke of Buckingham had an influence with many.
The last parliament of james, amidst all their joy and festivity, had given him a supply very disproportioned to his demand, and to the occasion.
To grant or refuse supplies was the undoubted privilege of the commons.
Even Elizabeth, notwithstanding her vigor and frugality, and the necessary wars in which she was engaged, had reason to complain of the commons in this particular; nor could the authority of that princess, which was otherwise almost absolute, ever extort from them the requisite supplies.
They were acquainted with the difficulty of military enterprises directed against the whole house of Austria; against the king of Spain, possessed of the greatest riches and most extensive dominions of any prince in Europe; against the emperor Ferdinand, hitherto the most fortunate monarch of his age, who had subdued and astonished Germany by the rapidity of his victories.
Though the religious schemes of many of the Puritans, when explained, appear pretty frivolous, we are not thence to imagine that they were pursued by none but persons of weak understandings.
All these were disgusted with the court, both by the prevalence of the principles of civil liberty essential to their party, and on account of the restraint under which they were held by the established hierarchy.
His vehement temper prompted him to raise suddenly, to the highest elevation, his flatterers and dependants; and upon the least occasion of displeasure, he threw them down with equal impetuosity and violence.
sixteen eighty eight
His discourse to the parliament was full of simplicity and cordiality.
And when the war which they themselves had so earnestly solicited, was at last commenced, the immediate desertion of their sovereign could not but seem very unaccountable.
And as all human governments, particularly those of a mixed frame, are in continual fluctuation, it was as natural, in their opinion, and allowable, for popular assemblies to take advantage of favorable incidents, in order to secure the subject, as for monarchs, in order to extend their own authority.
So numerous an assembly, composed of persons of various dispositions, was not, it is probable, wholly influenced by the same motives; and few declared openly their true reason.
The Puritanical party, though disguised, had a great authority over the kingdom; and many of the leaders among the commons had secretly embraced the rigid tenets of that sect.
The nation was very little accustomed at that time to the burden of taxes, and had never opened their purses in any degree for supporting their sovereign.
They were sensible, that the present war was very lately the result of their own importunate applications and entreaties, and that they had solemnly engaged to support their sovereign in the management of it.
And as every house of commons which was elected during forty years, succeeded to all the passions and principles of their predecessors, we ought rather to account for this obstinacy from the general situation of the kingdom during that whole period, than from any circumstances which attended this particular conjuncture.
This is a LibriVox recording.
The end they esteemed beneficent and noble; the means, regular and constitutional.
For more information, or to volunteer, please visit librivox dot org.
They knew that all the money granted by the last parliament had been expended on naval and military armaments; and that great anticipations were likewise made on the revenues of the crown.
The parliament, swayed by custom, would not augment their number in the same proportion.
{sixteen twenty five.} No sooner had Charles taken into his hands the reins of government, than he showed an impatience to assemble the great council of the nation; and he would gladly, for the sake of despatch, have called together the same parliament which had sitten under his father, and which lay at that time under prorogation.
In this view, likewise, the sinking of the value of subsidies must be considered as a loss to the king.
Charles now found himself obliged to depart from that delicacy which he had formerly maintained.
Those lofty ideas of monarchical power which were very commonly adopted during that age, and to which the ambiguous nature of the English constitution gave so plausible an appearance, were firmly rivetted in Charles; and however moderate his temper, the natural and unavoidable prepossessions of self love, joined to the late uniform precedents in favor of prerogative, had made him regard his political tenets as certain and uncontroverted.
However the ill humor of the commons might have been increased by these considerations, we are not to suppose them the sole motives.
They were not ignorant that Charles was loaded with a large debt, contracted by his father, who had borrowed money both from his own subjects and from foreign princes.
These the French court had pretended they would employ against the Genoese, who, being firm and useful allies to the Spanish monarchy, were naturally regarded with an evil eye, both by the king of France and of England.
In order to fortify himself against the resentment of james, Buckingham had affected popularity, and entered into the cabals of the Puritans: but, being secure of the confidence of Charles, he had since abandoned this party; and on that account was the more exposed to their hatred and resentment.
So atrocious in his eyes was such a design, that he seems even unwilling to impute it to the commons; and though he was constrained to adjourn the parliament by reason of the plague, which at that time raged in London, he immediately reassembled them at Oxford, and made a new attempt to gain from them some supplies in such an urgent necessity.
They had learned by experience, that the public revenue could with difficulty maintain the dignity of the crown, even under the ordinary charges of government.
His influence over the modesty of Charles exceeded even that which he had acquired over the weakness of james; nor was any public measure conducted but by his counsel and direction.
In this dilemma, men of such aspiring geniuses, and such independent fortunes, could not long deliberate: they boldly embraced the side of freedom, and resolved to grant no supplies to their necessitous prince, without extorting concessions in favor of civil liberty.
We shall, therefore, approach nearer to the truth, if we mention all the views which the present conjuncture could suggest to them.
Sir Ferdinando Gorges, who commanded one of the vessels, broke through and returned to England.
But being told that this measure would appear unusual, he issued writs for summoning a new parliament on the seventh of May; and it was not without regret that the arrival of the princess Henrietta, whom he had espoused by proxy, obliged him to delay, by repeated prorogations, their meeting till the eighteenth of June, when they assembled at Westminster for the despatch of business.
That never has a fall of tadpoles been reported;
That, upon the last of January, eighteen ninety, there fell, in a great tempest, in Switzerland, incalculable numbers of larvae: some black and some yellow; numbers so great that hosts of birds were attracted.
If you prefer to believe that the snakes had always been there, or had been upon the ground in the first place, and that it was only that something occurred to call special attention to them, in the streets of Memphis, january fifteenth eighteen seventy seven--why, that's sensible: that's the common sense that has been against us from the first.
If we try to accept that these snakes had been raised from some other part of this earth's surface in a whirlwind:
Here are the data.
He met one person who said that he had seen the snails fall.
Gray snake, about a foot long.
Before we take up an especial expression upon the fall of immature and larval forms of life to this earth, and the necessity then of conceiving of some factor besides mere stationariness or suspension or stagnation, there are other data that are similar to data of falls of fishes.
That, in memphis tennessee, january fifteenth eighteen seventy seven, rather strictly localized, or "in a space of two blocks," and after a violent storm in which the rain "fell in torrents," snakes were found.
All other forces have phenomena of repulsion and of inertness irrespective of distance, as well as of attraction.
Another correspondent writes that he had heard of the supposed fall of snails: that he had supposed that all such stories had gone the way of witch stories; that, to his astonishment, he had read an account of this absurd story in a local newspaper of "great and deserved repute."
Again two species, or polymorphism.
If we accept that these snakes did fall, even though not seen to fall by all the persons who were out sight seeing in a violent storm, and had not been in the streets crawling loose or in thick tangled masses, in the first place:
As to falls or flutterings of winged insects from the sky, prevailing notions of swarming would seem explanatory enough: nevertheless, in instances of ants, there are some peculiar circumstances.
The occurrence is considered a great mystery, because the worms could not have come up from the ground, inasmuch as the ground was frozen at the time, and because they were reported from other places, also, in Norway.
This matter of enormousness of numbers suggests to me something of a migratory nature-but that snakes in the United States do not migrate in the month of January, if ever.
Or still simpler:
Other indications of long duration.
The crust of the snow has been covered two or three times with worms resembling the ordinary cut worms.
The usual whirlwind explanation is given-"but in what locality snakes exist in such abundance is yet a mystery."
That small snails, of a land species, had fallen near Redruth, Cornwall, july eighth eighteen eighty six, "during a heavy thunderstorm": roads and fields strewn with them, so that they were gathered up by the hatful: none seen to fall by the writer of this account: snails said to be "quite different to any previously known in this district."
Genesistrine.
It is not said whether the snakes were of a known species or not, but that "when first seen, they were of a dark brown, almost black." Blacksnakes, I suppose.
From this cloud, fell a torrential rain, in which were hundreds of mussels.
No-I don't look for it-and inevitably find it.
We'll be persecuted for it.
It sounds positive, but if there be such reports they are somewhere out of my range of reading.
Gravitation is one of these forces.
Theoretically the attraction of a magnet should decrease with the square of the distance, but the falling off is found to be almost abrupt at a short distance.
One kind was larger than the other: color differences not distinctly stated.
There's no escape from it.
In accounts of this occurrence, there is no denial of the fall.
There is no opposition here, if our data of falls are clear.
They were crawling on sidewalks, in yards, and in streets, and in masses-but "none were found on roofs or any other elevation above ground" and "none were seen to fall."
Fall of fishes, june thirteenth eighteen eighty nine, in Holland; ants, august first eighteen eighty nine, Strasbourg; little toads, august second eighteen eighty nine, Savoy.
Orthodoxy accepts the correlation and equivalence of forces:
Then I think of a hurricane that occurred in the state of Mississippi weeks or months before may eleventh eighteen ninety four.
That wingless, larval forms of life, in numbers so enormous that migration from some place external to this earth is suggested, have fallen from the sky.
Take it or leave it-
"As I suspected," says this correspondent, "I found that the snails were of a familiar land species"--that they had been upon the ground "in the first place."
Then, near the place of origin, there would have been a fall of heavier objects that had been snatched up with the snakes-stones, fence rails, limbs of trees.
But tadpoles would be more likely to fall from the sky than would frogs, little or big, if such falls be attributed to whirlwinds; and more likely to fall from the Super Sargasso Sea if, though very tentatively and provisionally, we accept the Super Sargasso Sea.
Our quasi reasoning upon this subject applies to all segregations so far considered.
Larvae thought to have been of beetles, but described as "caterpillars," not seen to fall, but found crawling on the snow, after a snowstorm, at Warsaw, january twentieth eighteen fifty.
Say that the snakes occupied the next gradation, and would be the next to fall.
Not one instance have we of tadpoles that have fallen to this earth.
It then came to life.
That never has a fall of full grown frogs been reported-
Always frogs a few months old.
He found that the snails had appeared after the rain: that "astonished rustics had jumped to the conclusion that they had fallen."
If he thinks of a long translation-all the way from the south of France to Upper Savoy, he may think then of a very fine sorting over by differences of specific gravity-but in such a fine selection, larvae would be separated from developed insects.
Riley, it was not polymorphism, "but two distinct species"--which, because of our data, we doubt.
As to differences in specific gravity-the yellow larvae that fell in Switzerland January, eighteen ninety, were three times the size of the black larvae that fell with them.
As to the Law of Gravitation, I prefer to take one simple stand:
Whether it's the planet Genesistrine, or the moon, or a vast amorphous region super jacent to this earth, or an island in the Super Sargasso Sea, should perhaps be left to the researches of other super-or extra-geographers.
However, our expression will be:
But the omnipresence of Heterogeneity-or living fishes, also-ponds of fresh water: oceans of salt water.
If an exclusionist says that, in January, larvae were precisely and painstakingly picked out of frozen ground, in incalculable numbers, he thinks of a tremendous force-disregarding its refinements: then if origin and precipitation be not far apart, what becomes of an infinitude of other debris, conceiving of no time for segregation?
The writer thinks that the worms had been brought to the surface of the ground by rain, which had fallen previously.
Almost positively were there no other forms of insect life upon these glaciers, and there was no vegetation to support insect life, except microscopic organisms. Nevertheless the description of this probably polymorphic species fits a description of larvae said to have fallen in Switzerland, and less definitely fits another description.
The word "found" is agreeable to the repulsions of the conventionalists and their concept of an overflowing stream-but, according to dr Buist, some of these fishes were "found" on the tops of haystacks.
But so impressed are we with the datum that, though there have been many reports of small frogs that have fallen from the sky, not one report upon a fall of tadpoles is findable, that to these circumstances another adjustment must be made.
To start with, I'd like to emphasize something that I am permitted to see because I am still primitive or intelligent or in a state of maladjustment:
These three factors indicate, somewhere not far aloft, a region of inertness to this earth's gravitation, of course, however, a region that, by the flux and variation of all things, must at times be susceptible-but, afterward, our heresy will bifurcate-
I find that I have another note upon a specific hurricane:
As to discussion-not a word.
India is far away: about eighteen thirty was long ago.
If these fishes were not upon the ground in the first place, we base our objections to the whirlwind explanation upon two data:
But something not to be overlooked is that if living things have landed alive upon this earth-in spite of all we think we know of the accelerative velocity of falling bodies-and have propagated-why the exotic becomes the indigenous, or from the strangest of places we'd expect the familiar.
In this letter the fishes are said to have been about four inches long, but there is some question of species.
I omit many notes that I have upon indistinguishables.
As to "there in the first place":
A psycho tropism that arises here-disregarding serial significance-or mechanical, unintelligent, repulsive reflex-is that the fishes of India did not fall from the sky; that they were found upon the ground after torrential rains, because streams had overflowed and had then receded.
It seems to me that anybody who had lost a pond would be heard from.
A fall of fishes at Futtepoor, India, may sixteenth eighteen thirty three:
After one of the greatest hurricanes in the history of Ireland, some fish were found "as far as fifteen yards from the edge of a lake."
A correspondent writes, from the Dove Marine Laboratory, Cuttercoats, England, that, at Hindon, a suburb of Sunderland, august twenty fourth nineteen eighteen, hundreds of small fishes, identified as sand eels, had fallen-
There is nothing to conclude other than that hosts of data have been lost because orthodoxy does not look favorably upon such reports.
I add, however, that I have notes upon two other falls of tiny toads, in eighteen eighty three, one in France and one in Tahiti; also of fish in Scotland.
But a whirlwind is thought of as a condition of chaos-quasi chaos: not final negativeness, of course-
Or to those who hold out for segregation in a whirlwind, or that objects, say, twice as heavy as others would be separated from the lighter, we point out that some of these fishes were twice as heavy as others.
Were there some especially froggy place near Europe, as there is an especially sandy place, the scientific explanation would of course be that all small frogs falling from the sky in Europe come from that center of frogeity.
That ten minutes later another fall of fishes occurred upon this same narrow strip of land.
That small frogs and toads, for instance, never have fallen from the sky, but were-"on the ground, in the first place"; or that there have been such falls-"up from one place in a whirlwind, and down in another."
Places with white frogs in them.
To start with I do not deny-positively-the conventional explanation of "up and down." I think that there may have been such occurrences.
They fell in a hailstorm.
Of all incredibilities that we have to choose from, I give first place to a notion of a whirlwind pouncing upon a region and scrupulously selecting a turtle and a piece of alabaster.
That the bottom of a super geographical pond had dropped out.
Those fishes-still alive-were exhibited at the Zoological Gardens, Regent's Park.
Apart from our three factors of indication, an extraordinary observation is the fall of living things without injury to them.
That there is not one report findable of a fall of tadpoles from the sky.
Or if hosts of living frogs have come here-from somewhere else-every living thing upon this earth may, ancestrally, have come from-somewhere else.
But in the phenomenon of the Apennines, the mixture seems to me to be typical of the products of a whirlwind.
Another peculiarity of this fall is that some of the fishes were much larger than others.
Or Science and its continuity with Presbyterianism-data like this are damned at birth.
As to having been there "in the first place":
I'm afraid there is no escape for us: we shall have to give to civilization upon this earth-some new worlds.
"A small pond in the track of the cloud was sucked dry, the water being carried over the adjoining fields together with a large quantity of soft mud, which was scattered over the ground for half a mile around."
"Some of the fish were fresh, but others were rotten and without heads."
That, according to witnesses, the fall upon this small area occupied ten minutes.
This time, the other mechanical thing "there in the first place" cannot rise in response to its stimulus: it is resisted in that these objects were coated with ice-month of May in a southern state.
Something else apart from our three main interests is a phenomenon that looks like what one might call an alternating series of falls of fishes, whatever the significance may be:
If a whirlwind at all, there must have been very limited selection: there is no record of the fall of other objects.
Upon several occasions we have had data of unknown things that have fallen from-somewhere.
Of all instances I have that attribute the fall of small frogs or toads to whirlwinds, only one definitely identifies or places the whirlwind.
Altogether I think we have not a sense of total perdition, when we're damned with the explanation that someone soused someone else with a pailful of water in which were thousands of fishes four or five inches long, some of which covered roofs of houses, and some of which remained ten minutes in the air.
That, according to testimony taken before a magistrate, a fall occurred, february nineteenth eighteen thirty, near Feridpoor, India, of many fishes, of various sizes-some whole and fresh and others "mutilated and putrefying." Our reflex to those who would say that, in the climate of India, it would not take long for fishes to putrefy, is-that high in the air, the climate of India is not torrid.
And:
A witness of this fall says:
"A shower of frogs which darkened the air and covered the ground for a long distance is the reported result of a recent rainstorm at kansas city missouri."
He says that dr Gray's explanation is no doubt right.
The best known fall of fishes from the sky is that which occurred at Mountain Ash, in the Valley of Abedare, Glamorganshire, february eleventh eighteen fifty nine.
These seemed to thrive well." As to narrow distribution, we are told that the fishes fell "in and about the premises of mr Nixon." "It was not observed at the time that any fish fell in any other part of the neighborhood, save in the particular spot mentioned."
But also other areas, in which fishes-however they got there: a matter that we'll consider-remain and dry, or even putrefy, then sometimes falling by atmospheric dislodgment.
"Among the number which I got, five were fresh and the rest stinking and headless."
Also, as has been said before, a pond going up would be quite as interesting as frogs coming down.
In amiable accommodation to the crucifixion it'll get, I think-
The sea is close to Hindon, but if you try to think of these fishes having described a trajectory in a whirlwind from the ocean, consider this remarkable datum:
By way of contrast we offer our own acceptance:
And something that strikes my attention here is that these frogs are described as almost white.
According to dr Buist, some of these fishes weighed one and a half pounds each and others three pounds.
Some persons, thinking them to be sea fishes, placed them in salt water, according to mr Roberts.
I think, myself, that they were minnows and sticklebacks.
"The effect is stated to have been almost instantaneous death." "Some were placed in fresh water.
"The fish were all dead, and indeed stiff and hard, when picked up, immediately after the occurrence."
In a tornado, in Wisconsin, may twenty third eighteen seventy eight, "a barn and a horse were carried completely away, and neither horse nor barn, nor any portion of either have since been found."
In this letter it is said that the largest fishes were five inches long, and that these did not survive the fall.
I cannot think of a clearer indication of a direct fall from a stationary source.
I don't know how much the horse and the barn will help us to emerge: but, if ever anything did go up from this earth's surface and stay up-those damned things may have:
I saw a light just ahead on the right-shall we hail?"
We were nearing the shore, for the purpose of looking for wood, the banks being invisible from the middle of the river.
We jogged on quietly-and seemed to be going at a good rate.
This wood seems rather better than that we took in at Yellow Face's, but we're nearly out again, and must be looking out for more.
It was my fate to take passage in this boat.
"Only about ten cords, sir," was the reply of the youthful salesman.
The wooding completed, we paddled on again.
We had been out a little more than five days, and we were in hopes of seeing the bluffs of Natchez on the next day.
At eleven o'clock it was reported to the Captain that we were nearing the woodyard, the light being distinctly seen by the pilot on duty.
"What's the price of wood?"
"How does that wood burn?" inquired the Captain of the mate, who was looking on at the game.
(Deal, sir, if you please; better luck next time.)"
I had risen and went out with the Captain, to enjoy a view of the bluffs.
It appears the two passengers, in their first lesson, had incidentally lost one hundred and twenty dollars.
Still, with all these disadvantages, they continued playing-they wanted to learn the game.
This pilot's beating us all to smash."
The game went on, and the paddles kept moving.
A voyage from New Orleans to Vicksburg and back, including stoppages, generally entitled the officers and crew to a month's wages.
"Hallo yourself!" answered a squeaking female voice, which came from a woman with a petticoat over her shoulders in place of a shawl.
The pilots here changed places.
Day at length dawned.
It's your deal)--Thompson, I say, we'd better take three or four cords at the next woodyard-it can't be more than six miles from here-(Two aces and a bragger, with the age!
The Captain here told Thompson to take six cords, which would last till daylight-and again turned his attention to the game.
"Hallo, Colonel!
Thus every man will follow this or that train of thought, according as he has been in the habit of conjoining and associating the mental images of things in this or that manner.
The mind does not err in the mere act of imagining, but only in so far as it is regarded as being without the idea, which excludes the existence of such things as it imagines to be present to it.
Corollary two.--It follows, secondly, that the ideas, which we have of external bodies, indicate rather the constitution of our own body than the nature of external bodies.
I have amply illustrated this in the Appendix to Part one
The former directly answers to the essence of Peter's own body, and only implies existence so long as peter exists; the latter indicates rather the disposition of Paul's body than the nature of peter, and, therefore, while this disposition of Paul's body lasts, Paul's mind will regard peter as present to itself, even though he no longer exists.
If the human body is affected in a manner which involves the nature of any external body, the human mind will regard the said external body as actually existing, or as present to itself, until the human body be affected in such a way, as to exclude the existence or the presence of the said external body.
Further, to retain the usual phraseology, the modifications of the human body, of which the ideas represent external bodies as present to us, we will call the images of things, though they do not recall the figure of things.
The idea of every mode, in which the human body is affected by external bodies, must involve the nature of the human body, and also the nature of the external body.
I will here draw attention to the fact, in order to indicate where error lies, that the imaginations of the mind, looked at in themselves, do not contain error.
Corollary.--The mind is able to regard as present external bodies, by which the human body has once been affected, even though they be no longer in existence or present.
The human mind has no knowledge of the body, and does not know it to exist, save through the ideas of the modifications whereby the body is affected.
Note.--We now clearly see what Memory is.
Note.--We thus see how it comes about, as is often the case, that we regard as present many things which are not.
BY EDMUND CLARENCE STEDMAN
Love!
So thousands of years have come and gone, And still the moon is shining on, Still Hymen's torch is lighted; And hitherto, in this land of the West, Most couples in love have thought it best To follow the ancient way of the rest, And quietly get united.
What times were those, Long ere the age of belles and beaux, And Brussels lace and silken hose, When, in the green Arcadian close, You married Psyche under the rose, With only the grass for bedding! Heart to heart, and hand to hand, You followed Nature's sweet command, Roaming lovingly through the land, Nor sighed for a Diamond Wedding.
When the children got home from the nutting expedition and had eaten supper, they sat around discontentedly, wishing every few minutes that their mother had returned.
Now, den, e f y'all raidy, I gwine begin.
The little procession moved upstairs, Coonie, the house boy, bringing up the rear with an armful of sticks and some fat splinters of lightwood, which were soon blazing with an oily sputter.
BY ANNE VIRGINIA CULBERTSON
"I'm not sleepy," "Want to stay up," came in chorus from three pairs of lips.
"You chillen is wusser dan night owls," said the old woman.
"I wish mamma would come back," said Ned.
"Don't want to go to bed,"
"But how could they think an owl was a man?" asked Janey.
Coonie scented a story, and his bullet pate was bent over the fire an unnecessarily long time, as he blew valiant puffs upon the flames which no longer needed his assistance, and arranged and rearranged his skilfully piled sticks.
"And didn't he ever come back?" said Ned.
But-... it frightens me.
Sir Richmond recalled that little speech now as he returned from Salisbury station to the Old George after his farewell to Martineau.
He recalled too the soft firmness of her profile and the delicate line of her lifted chin.
"We have a right to life-and happiness.
"I don't complain that you are clear and positive.
But when we have eaten, when we have slept, when we have jolly things about us-it is nothing.
"Tell me what you want to do to him.
Generally it would seem Miss Grammont liked him, and she had a way of speaking about him that suggested that in some way mr Lake had been rather hardly used and had acquired merit by his behaviour under bad treatment. There was some story, however, connected with her war services in Europe upon which Miss Grammont was evidently indisposed to dwell.
She liked his turn of thought, she watched him with a faint smile on her lips as he spoke, and she spread her opinions before him carefully in that soft voice of hers like a shy child showing its treasures to some suddenly trusted and favoured visitor.
Just as we want food, just as we want sleep.
And as they were both very frank and expressive people, they already knew a very great deal about each other.
She either concealed or she had lost any great interest in her own personality.
"Now you tell me of it," she said with a smile, "I do."
"I suppose it has," she said, meditatively, as though she had been thinking over some such question before.
They were steered to their decisions by people employed, directed or stimulated by "father" and his friends and associates, the owners of America, the real "responsible citizens." Or they fell a prey to the merely adventurous leading of "revolutionaries." But anyhow they were steered.
It is bringing us into directer relation with public affairs,--making them matter as formerly they didn't seem to matter. That idea of the bright little private life has to go by the board."
"So we just live like pigs.
"Well!
It might happen, but it wasn't so necessary....
Sensible little piggywiggys.
Don't you?"
You've made it clear.
"That can't go on," she said.
I am tired of a world in which there is nothing great but great disasters.
But whether we get life and happiness or fail to get them we human beings who have imaginations want something more nowadays....
There is a consciousness of new powers and new responsibilities.
We don't get enough to do.
The sustaining topic was this New Age Sir Richmond fore shadowed, this world under scientific control, the Utopia of fully developed people fully developing the resources of the earth.
Here is something mankind can attempt, that we can attempt."
And treat us as though we ought to be satisfied if they bring home part of the winnings.
But passion was a thing men and women fell back upon when they had nothing else in common.
Devoted to his work.
"I am tired of following little motives that are like flames that go out when you get to them.
Sir Richmond walked thoughtfully down the platform towards the exit.
"I shall be interested to learn what happens."
Her eyes went back to the long, low, undulating skyline of the downs. She spoke as though she took up the thread of some controversy that had played a large part in her life.
It's refreshing to meet you."
Martineau was very fine minded in many respects, but he was an old maid; and like all old maids he saw man and woman in every encounter.
"Rather shy in some respects.
So that it was natural for Miss Grammont and Sir Richmond to ask: "What are we to do with such types as father?" and to fall into an idiom that assumed a joint enterprise.
Their ways of thought harmonized.
About that story Sir Richmond was left at the end of his Avebury day and after his last talk with dr Martineau, still quite vaguely guessing.
Her views about America and about her own place in the world seemed equally fresh and original to Sir Richmond.
For a little while he thought confusedly of the collapse of his expedition into the secret places of his own heart with dr Martineau, and then his prepossession with Miss Grammont resumed possession of his mind.
Section three
"He's a most interesting man," he said.
I've been suspecting for a long time that Civilization wasn't much good unless it got people like my father under some sort of control.
For an American Miss Grammont was by no means autobiographical.
I want it as my culminating want.
We're petted.
We shall come out to Washington presently with proposals."
It wasn't clear before."
"And," she went on; "there are American women who'd love it too.
CHAPTER THE SEVENTH
"Why not?
"I've been getting to believe something like this.
Sir Richmond and Miss Grammont had walked round the old circumvallation together, but Belinda Seyffert had strayed away from them, professing an interest in flowers.
"I realize I've got to be a responsible American citizen," she had said. That didn't mean that she attached very much importance to her recently acquired vote.
You find out so many things for me that I seem to have been thinking about in a sort of almost invisible half conscious way.
And it throws those who talk about it into the companionship of a common enterprise. To morrow the New Age will be here no doubt, but today it is the hope and adventure of only a few human beings.
This masculinization idea had also sent her on a commission of enquiry into Mexico.
"And will?"
They were prepared to think of the makers of the Avebury dyke as their yesterday selves, of the stone age savages as a phase, in their late childhood, and of this great world order Sir Richmond foresaw as a day where dawn was already at hand.
I am tired of seeing all the world doing the same.
It is vast, I agree, but vast as it is it is the thing we have to think about.
Gunter Lake, the big banker, she knew particularly well, because, it seemed, she had been engaged or was engaged to marry him.
Of course we want bright lives, of course we want happiness.
There is a flow of new ideas abroad, he thinks, widening realizations, unprecedented hopes and fears.
dr Martineau was forgotten.
COMPANIONSHIP
"Ought you to leave me to it?" smiled Sir Richmond.
So many of our big business men in America are.
It was not so much that she felt they had to be left together that made her do this as her own consciousness of being possessed by a devil who interrupted conversations.
"But if you won't stay to see!"
"no
The idea of a New Age necessarily carries with it the idea of fresh rules of conduct and of different relationships between human beings.
They don't seem to know what they are doing.
"That isn't going on," she said with an effect of conclusive decision.
He despised and distrusted women generally, and it was evident he had made it quite clear to her how grave an error it was on her part to persist in being a daughter and not a son.
"What else could I do?" he asked aloud to nobody in particular.
We're spenders and wasters-not always from choice.
"First," said Sir Richmond, "as much right as a pig has to food.
Father it seemed varied very much in his attitude towards her.
"I've been talking of this sort of thing with my friend dr Martineau. And I've been thinking as well as talking.
I want a world in order, a disciplined mankind going on to greater things.
For a number of trivial reasons Sir Richmond found himself ascribing the project of this New Age almost wholly to dr Martineau, and presenting it as a much completer scheme than he was justified in doing.
He'll lash out at you."
The visit to Avebury had been a great success.
"Obdurate clay with a sort of recalcitrant, unintelligent life of its own."
She considered and turned on Sir Richmond gravely.
She had worked for ordinary wages and ordinary hours, and at the end of the day, she mentioned casually, a large automobile with two menservants and a trustworthy secretary used to pick her out from the torrent of undistinguished workers that poured out of the Synoptical Building.
Her interest in Sir Richmond's schemes for a scientific world management of fuel was therefore, she realized, a very direct one.
The world excited them both in the same way; as a crisis in which they were called upon to do something-they did not yet clearly know what.
She herself, it was clear, was bound to become a very responsible citizen indeed.
She considered that.
Its delight was particularly manifest in the cream and salad it produced for lunch.
If people dare."
"He is a most intractable man."
The big thing confronts us still.
"I believe what you say is possible.
When they thought in the pleasantest harmony and every remark seemed to weave a fresh thread of common interest, then it wasn't so necessary.
The world, he believes, is entering upon a new phase in its history, the adolescence, so to speak, of mankind.
For the better part of forty hours, Sir Richmond had either been talking to Miss Grammont, or carrying on imaginary conversations with her in her absence, or sleeping and dreaming dreams in which she never failed to play a part, even if at times it was an altogether amazing and incongruous part.
She had had plentiful opportunities for observation in their homes and her own.
At moments it seemed to Sir Richmond that she was disposed to agree with father upon that.
Her reflections travelled fast and broke out now far ahead of him.
"After all," he would reflect as he hesitated over the practicability of his life's ideal, "there was Hetty Green."
"I haven't," she said.
Section two
Nobody is doing anything with the world except muddle about. Why not give it a direction?"
You will find my father extremely difficult, but some of our younger men would love it.
It didn't exist.
"The private life," she said, "has a way of coming aboard again."
I am doing my best to help lay the foundation of a scientific world control of fuel production and distribution.
Miss Grammont surveyed the landscape.
And in such long perspectives, the states, governments and institutions of to day became very temporary looking and replaceable structures indeed.
"I don't mind if only he lashes out openly in the sight of all men."
She had been entrusted at first to a harvester concern independent of mr Grammont, because he feared his own people wouldn't train her hard.
But upon the question of labour mr Grammont was fierce, even for an American business man, and one night at a dinner party he discovered his daughter displaying what he considered an improper familiarity with socialist ideas.
There apparently she had really done responsible work.
When Miss Grammont was keenly interested in a conversation, then Belinda had learnt from experience that it was wiser to go off with her devil out of the range of any temptation to interrupt.
This young woman had real firmness of character to back up her free and independent judgments.
They had agreed by a tacit consent to a common conception of the world they desired as a world scientifically ordered, an immense organization of mature commonsense, healthy and secure, gathering knowledge and power for creative adventures as yet beyond dreaming.
I've got a Committee full of that sort of thing.
"But before-?"
Both these two people found themselves thinking in this fashion with an unwonted courage and freedom because the other one had been disposed to think in this fashion before.
She evidently classified voters into the irresponsible who just had votes and the responsible who also had a considerable amount of property as well.
We have been made an exception of-and got our rations.
And her liking for Sir Richmond was pleasingly manifest.
It was true that dr Martineau had not said many of the things Sir Richmond ascribed to him, but also it was true that they had not crystallized out in Sir Richmond's mind before his talks with dr Martineau.
She had no illusions about the power of the former class.
"All these people," she said, "are pushing things about, affecting millions of lives, hurting and disordering hundreds of thousands of people.
"Not quite that!"
But it was remarkable to find a young woman seeing it like that.
Both Miss Grammont and Miss Seyffert displayed an intelligent interest in their food.
She would some day, she laughed, be swimming in oil and such like property.
His round face betrayed little or no vestiges of his overnight irritation.
And you are getting something going that will be a plan and a direction and a conscience and a control for them?
After lunch they had all gone out to the stones and the wall.
Yes, I have."
He smiled at the idea of any facile passion in the composition of so sure and gallant a personality.
"Yes.
So much fact about Miss Grammont as we have given had floated up in fragments and pieced itself together in Sir Richmond's mind in the course of a day and a half.
That perhaps is why I'm so clear and positive."
It is an idea that seizes the imagination.
The fragments came up as allusions or by way of illustration.
How do you put it?"
We aren't placed.
"Incidentally," he smiled, "I want to get a lasso over the neck of that very forcible and barbaric person, your father.
But controlling father-as distinguished from managing him!" She reviewed some private and amusing memories.
"I believe that as Mankind grows up this is the business Man has to settle down to and will settle down to."
"Well," said dr Martineau, extending his hand to Sir Richmond on the Salisbury station platform, "I leave you to it."
"So that I go about," she added, "like someone who is looking for something.
"I found it refreshing to meet Martineau." A twinge of conscience about dr Martineau turned Sir Richmond into a new channel.
We have a Fuel Commission in London with rather wide powers of enquiry into the whole world problem of fuel.
We're kept out of things.
"Now Sir, please," said the guard respectfully but firmly, and dr Martineau got in.
Sir Richmond considered.
He felt that this time at any rate he was not being deceived by the outward shows of a charming human being.
While these fathers and brothers and husbands of ours play about with the fuel and power and life and hope of the world as though it was a game of poker. With all the empty unspeakable solemnity of the male.
They talked at first chiefly about the history of the world and the extraordinary situation of aimlessness in a phase of ruin to which the Great War had brought all Europe, if not all mankind.
We live like little modest pigs. And let the world go hang.
She gave no sketches of her idiosyncrasies, and she repeated no remembered comments and prophets of her contemporaries about herself.
But she was interested in and curious about the people she had met in life, and her talk of them reflected a considerable amount of light upon her own upbringing and experiences.
That's what she was,--a companion.
I do not know why it should be so, but I am compelled by something in my nature to want to serve this idea of a new age for mankind.
They have no plans in particular....
And he's writing a book which has saturated him in these ideas. Only two nights ago we stood here and talked about it.
We want bright little lives of our own."
I'd like to know if it's not jabbing too searching a question at you-what you have found."
Into this topic they peered as into some deep pool, side by side, and in it they saw each other reflected.
"You have some sort of work cut out for you," she said abruptly.
"You really think," said Miss Grammont, "that it would be possible to take this confused old world and reshape it, set it marching towards that new world of yours-of two hundred and fifty million fully developed, beautiful and happy people?"
If it did it would be a secondary thing to companionship.
It is giving history a new and more intimate meaning for us.
You must remember that....
"On the second occasion."
You-on account of the illness of that rather forgotten lady, Miss Martin Leeds-" "Aren't you rather abusing the secrets of the confessional?"
And as I have been saying she was a spoilt child, with no discipline....
Now I guess this Miss Grammont has had no mother since she was quite little."
Her intelligence is better than her character."
She is quite prepared to fall in love with you."
"But if you consider it scandalous-and really, Martineau, really!
"In America I suppose there is at least an equal variety, made up of rather different types.
"She knows nothing of Martin Leeds....
"And then," he added, "if she and you fall in love, as the phrase goes, what is to follow?"
Perhaps the man has been killed.
That is the core of this situation."
Section six
Sir Richmond nodded.
She has been shocked out of the first confidence of youth.
History, for her, has ceased to be a fabric of picturesque incidents; it is the study of a tragic struggle that still goes on.
"These miracles-grotesquely-happen," he said.
Quite. She could-for example-be left behind with the luggage and sent on by train.
Still I suppose custom and tradition kept this girl in her place and she was petted, honoured, amused, talked about but not in a harmful way, and rather bored right up to the time when America came into the war.
I have the privilege of the negligible-which is a cool head.
In these matters.
The matter was settled.
From the Psychologist of a New Age I find this amazing.
They had resumed their overnight conversation, in a state of considerable tension.
And that somehow the war came to alter the look of that promise.
And in many ways interesting.
"Your guesses, doctor, are apt to be pretty good," said Sir Richmond.
Because she looks back at you.
"What would a rich girl find out there in America?
"What do you think she found?"
We are a party of four. There are conventions, there are considerations....
"We might drop Belinda," he suggested turning to his friend and speaking in low, confidential tones.
My dear sir, don't we both know that ever since we left London you have been ready to fall in love with any pretty thing in petticoats that seemed to promise you three ha'porth of kindness.
Sir Richmond, upon the hearthrug, had a curious feeling that he was back in the head master's study at Caxton.
dr Martineau went on with a lucidity that Sir Richmond found rather trying, to give his impression of Miss Grammont and her position in life.
"No, I don't.
"I don't quite see what you are driving at."
Her manners suggest a person of considerable self control.
And knowing less of me than you do, she probably regards me as almost as safe as-a maiden aunt say.
"I want to go on talking to Miss Grammont for a day or so," Sir Richmond admitted.
Rash, inconsiderate action quite another.
Is there never to be friendship and companionship between men and women without passion?"
There was a pause.
In matters of property, economics and public conduct it will probably be just the reverse.
For a moment he had a wild hope that his companion would agree, and then he perceived that the doctor's silence meant only the preparation of an ultimatum.
"Frankly," said the doctor, "this adventure is altogether uncongenial to me.
Look at the thing frankly.
You see the interest of her."
Miss Grammont being a woman is a little more selective than that.
Are men and women to go on for ever-separated by this possibility into two hardly communicating and yet interpenetrating worlds?
They had smoothed over the extreme harshness of their separation and there was very little more to be said.
That I think is why history has become real to her.
And at present the world is not prepared to tolerate friendship and companionship WITH that accompaniment.
dr Martineau rolled his face towards Sir Richmond.
You carry marriage and entanglements lightly.
"You don't mean-?"
"I suppose her father adores and neglects her, and whenever she has wanted a companion or governess butchered, the thing has been done.... These business Americans, I am told, neglect their womenkind, give them money and power, let them loose on the world....
I don't think there has been any stepmother, either friendly or hostile? There hasn't been.
Sir Richmond smiled again.
Can you deny it?
And there is something more to be said.
I thought not.
"Really!" he said, "this is preposterous.
And something more than that.
That is the sort of thing that gratifies a silly woman extremely.
She is a very grown up young woman.
"When the New Age is here," said Sir Richmond, "then, surely, a friendship between a man and a woman will not be subjected to the-the inconveniences your present code would set about it?
But for this young woman I am convinced this expedition to Europe has meant experience, harsh educational experience and very profound mental disturbance.
"I am really very sorry to find myself in this dilemma," said Sir Richmond with a note of genuine regret in his voice.
Miss Grammont has an impulsive and adventurous character.
This affair, if it goes on for a few days more, may involve very serious consequences indeed, with which I, for one, do not wish to be involved."
This highway coupling-"
I would not care if you hired an omnibus, said dr Martineau.
"If you find the accommodation of the car insufficient," said Sir Richmond in a tone of extreme reasonableness, and I admit it is, we can easily hire a larger car in a place like this.
I don't know.
"I could have wished," said the doctor, "that these ladies had happened a little later...."
"I object to Miss Grammont and that side of the thing, more than I do to Miss Seyffert."
"Thought is one matter.
And you-if you will forgive me-are living in the patched up remains of a life that had already had its complications.
Miss Seyffert is a fairly crude mixture of frankness, insincerity and self explanatory egotism, and I have been able to disregard a considerable amount of the conversation she has addressed to me.
It is a sort of moral laziness masquerading as affection....
"It is not a dilemma," said dr Martineau, with a corresponding loss of asperity.
"You know that?"
I have been watching her.
"I think this must be near the truth of her biography," said Sir Richmond.
You talk of falling in love as though it was impossible for a man and woman to be deeply interested in each other without that.
"She is," he said, "manifestly a very expensively educated girl.
I have not been favoured with very much of her attention, but that fact has enabled me to see her in profile.
After twenty four eventful hours our two students of human motives found themselves together again by the fireplace in the Old George smoking room.
Nothing more of a practical nature remained to be said.
Or she has met with cowardice or cruelty or treachery where she didn't expect it.
Theoretically she had a tremendously good time."
"She has told me as much."
"And of course you told her I was."
Sir Richmond looked at his toes for a moment or so as if he took counsel with them and then decided to take offence.
Which so attracts you in her.
"She is quite a manageable person.
And the gulf in our ages-in our quality!
"But you don't really think that?" said Sir Richmond, with an ill concealed eagerness.
Yes.
Miss Grammont is not silly and all this homage and facile approval probably bored her more than she realized.
"I see a lot more than that.
A pause fell between the two gentlemen.
Perhaps she has seen people she knew killed.
"I grant you we discover we differ upon a question of taste and convenience.
I haven't the material to guess with.
With an air of being neither married nor entangled.
"It's just that.
Miss Grammont has a startled and matured mind, an original mind.
"The intelligence of all intelligent women is better than their characters.
They would travel about together as they chose?"
"It's just that," said Sir Richmond.
She is very much at loose ends.
Those who seek find."
I'm twice her age.
You don't know what an advantage it is to be as I am, rather cold and unresponsive to women and unattractive and negligible-negligible, that is the exact word-to them.
She has ceased to take the world for granted. It hasn't broken her but it has matured her.
There have been love experiences; experiences that were something more than the treats and attentions and proposals that made up her life when she was sheltered over there.
"It may help you to see this affair from a slightly different angle if I tell you that twice today Miss Seyffert has asked me if you were a married man."
"How?"
But we are not living in a new age yet; we are living in the patched up ruins of a very old one.
"I don't know.
The war has turned an ugly face to her.
There were some moments of silence.
Sir Richmond said nothing.
But neither gentleman wished to break off with a harsh and bare decision.
For such people as you two anyhow.
His color is not counted against him.
Change the environment, and the race is transformed. Certainly the American Indian has clearly demonstrated the truth of this assertion.
One of the earliest practitioners of our race was dr Susan La Flesche Picotte of the Omaha tribe.
THE INDIAN IN COLLEGE AND THE PROFESSIONS
It is the express policy of the Government to use the educated Indians, whenever possible, in promoting the advancement of their race; indeed some of the treaties include this stipulation.
We will prove that the Indian is a gentleman and a sportsman; he will not complain; he will do nothing unfair or underhand; he will play the game according to the rules, and will not swear-at least not in public!"
In literature several writers of Indian blood have appeared during the past few years, and have won a measure of recognition.
In this matter I speak from personal experience as well as long observation.
The honorable
We all know that governors and other men of mark have proclaimed themselves descendants of Pocahontas; I have met several in the West and South.
Our first president is Rev.
It was declared without qualification by the Universal Races Congress at London in nineteen eleven that there is no inherently superior race, therefore no inferior race.
Their own schools graduate them at a mature age and do not prepare them for college.
Henry Roe Cloud, a Winnebago, graduated from Yale and Oberlin.
f a McKenzie of the university arranged the course, and soon afterward he wrote me that he believed the time was now ripe to organize our society.
Some of us have entered upon every known professional career, such as medicine, law, the ministry, education and the sciences, politics and higher business management, art and literature.
When she had finished, she returned to her tribe, and was for some time in the Government service.
Frank Wright, a Choctaw, is well known as an evangelistic preacher and singer.
A little later it suggested chiefly feathers and paint and "Buffalo Bill's Wild West." To day the association is rather with the Carlisle school and its famous athletes; but to the thinking mind the name suggests deeper thoughts and higher possibilities.
It was the Chicago Museum which sent him to the Philippine Islands, where he was murdered by the natives a few years ago.
The very mention of the name "Indian" in earlier days would make the average white man's blood creep with thoughts of the war whoop and the scalping knife.
Very few Indians are sufficiently independent of the Bureau to speak and act with absolute freedom.
In the ministry we have many able and devoted men-more than in any other profession.
She has since taken up private practice and also had charge of a mission hospital.
It is a large task.
After graduation dr Montezuma was sent by the Government as physician to an Indian agency in Montana, and later transferred to the Carlisle school.
Senator Owen of Oklahoma is part Cherokee.
We organized as a committee, and issued a general call for a conference in October at the university, upon the cordial invitation of dr McKenzie and President Thompson.
It is a serious question what principles we should stand for and what line of work we ought to undertake.
Every complaint was brought to him, as a matter of course; and he was expected to expose and redress every wrong.
A large portrait of him adorns the parlor of the club, showing him as the naked Indian captive of about four years old.
Sherman Coolidge, my brother, john Eastman, and myself.
His much regretted death occurred a few months later.
Others think differently; and, as a matter of fact, a Washington office has been opened and much attention paid to governmental affairs.
In the athletic world this little race has no peer, as is sufficiently proven by their remarkable record in football, baseball, and track athletics.
A number of young women, Carlisle graduates, have taken up trained nursing as a profession, and are practising successfully both among whites and Indians.
What we need is not less education, but more; more trained leaders to uphold the standards of civilization before both races.
I have been asked why my race has not produced a Booker Washington. There are many difficulties in the way of efficient race leadership; one of them is the large number of different Indian tribes with their distinct languages, habits, and traditions, and with old tribal jealousies and antagonisms yet to be overcome.
Representative Carter of Oklahoma is also an Indian.
We corresponded with leading Indians and arranged a meeting at Columbus for the following April.
As for those brilliant men, so many in number, who have the blood of both races in their veins, I will not pretend to claim for the Indian all the credit of their talents and energy.
Stationed at Pine Ridge at the time of the Wounded Knee massacre, he opened his church to the wounded Indian prisoners as an emergency hospital.
From their point of view, a particularly able or well equipped man of their race is a public blessing, and all but public property.
Bishop Whipple developed many able preachers, of whom perhaps the most accomplished was the reverend Charles Smith Cook, of the Yankton Sioux.
They have had to adjust themselves to a new way of thinking, as well as a new language, before they could master such abstract ideas and problems as are presented by mathematics and the sciences.
The Indians' victory was complete.
All this time, although receiving some aid from various sources, he largely supported himself.
CHAPTER eight
William Jones, a Sac and Fox quarter blood, was a graduate of Hampton and of Harvard University.
These boys always fight the battle on its own merits; they play a clean game, and lose very few games during the season, although they meet all our leading universities, each on its own home grounds.
The whole country has come to realize his ability and influence.
I would argue that the Indian blood is even stronger, for a half blood negro and Indian may pass for an Indian, and so be admitted to first-class hotels and even to high society.
I stand for the latter plan.
john Eastman, who passed but a short time in school, has not only been a successful preacher among the Sioux but for many years their trusted adviser and representative to look after their interests at the national capital.
The Five Civilized Nations of Oklahoma can show many other writers and journalists.
The press is responsible for many popular errors.
Francis La Flesche, an Omaha, has collaborated with Miss Alice c Fetcher in ethnological work, and is also the author of a pleasing story of life in an Indian school called "The Middle Five." Zitkalasa, a Sioux (now mrs Bonney), attended a Western college, where she distinguished herself in an intercollegiate oratorical contest.
Charles Curtis, Senator from Kansas, was a successful lawyer in Topeka when he was elected to the House of Representatives, and later to the United States Senate.
"Major," I said, "that is exactly why I want you to do it.
They made him carry too heavy a burden, without much recompense save honor and respect.
I have even known one to be killed by the continual demands upon him.
Consequently its graduates must attend a higher preparatory school for several years before they can enter college.
The contrary is true.
Or should we rather do intensive work among our people, looking especially toward their moral and social welfare?
mr Cook was graduated from Trinity College, Hartford, and later from Seabury Divinity School.
Having prepared at Hampton Institute and elsewhere, she entered the Philadelphia Medical College for Women.
He was the son of a Sioux woman and a military officer.
From every race some individuals have mastered the same curriculum and passed the same tests, and in some instances members of so-called "uncivilized" races have stood higher than the average "civilized" student; therefore they have the same inherent ability. Certain peoples have remained undeveloped because of their religion, philosophy, and form of government; in other words, because of the racial environment.
dr Booker Washington is in the habit of saying jocosely that the negro blood is the strongest in the world, for one drop of it makes a "nigger" of a white man.
His mother is a Kaw Indian.
Not long afterward the game was introduced at Carlisle, and I was asked by the General to visit Montana and the Dakotas to secure pupils for the school, and, incidentally, recruits for his football warriors.
It is the impression of many people who are not well informed on the Indian situation that book education is of little value to the race, particularly what is known as the higher education.
Among Indian college and university graduates a failure is very rare; I am sure I have not met one, and really do not know of one.
They must know that many distinguished army officers as well as traders and explorers left sons and daughters among the American tribes, especially during the first half of the nineteenth century.
"Why," said he, "if I did that, half the press of the country would attack me for developing the original war instincts and savagery of the Indian! The public would be afraid to come to our games!"
He stands uncompromisingly for the total abolition of the reservation system and of the Indian Bureau, holding that the red man must be allowed to work out his own salvation.
Our people have not been trained to work together harmoniously.
He is received cordially and upon equal terms in school, college, and society.
NO "INFERIOR RACE"
That was the old rule among us. Up to a very recent period an educated Indian could not succeed materially; he could not better himself, because the people required him to give unlimited free service, according to the old regime.
I wish to contradict the popular misconception that an educated Indian will necessarily meet with strong prejudice among his own people, or will be educated out of sympathy with them.
Or should we keep clear of these matters, avoid discussion of official methods and action, and simply aim at arousing racial pride and ambition along new lines, holding up a modern ideal for the support and encouragement of our youth?
In a few years he returned to Chicago and opened an office.
It is a fact that the intelligent and educated Indian has no social prejudice to contend with.
At least two are superintendents of schools.
The boy was called Berthold, from the place of his birth. He was afterward sent to Yankton College, but I do not know what became of him.
OBJECTS OF THE SOCIETY OF AMERICAN INDIANS
From the fleet Deerfoot to this day we boast the noted names of Longboat, Sockalexis, Bemus Pierce, Frank Hudson, Tewanima, Metoxen, Myers, Bender, and Jim Thorpe.
If such a society were formed, it would necessarily take many problems of the race under consideration, and the officials at Washington and in the field are sensitive to criticism, nor are they accustomed to allowing the Indian a voice in his own affairs.
The Presbyterian Church alone has thirty eight and the Episcopal Church about twenty, with a less number in several other denominations, and two Roman Catholic priests.
SOME NOTED INDIANS OF TO DAY
He was brought to Chicago by the man who ransomed him, a reporter and photographer, and when his benefactor died, the boy became the protege of the Chicago Press Club.
The society has five hundred active and about the same number of associate members; the latter are white friends of the race who are in sympathy with our objects.
Thorpe is a graduate of the Carlisle school, and at the Olympic Games in Sweden in nineteen twelve he won the title of the greatest all round athlete in the world.
But we have pretty well passed through that period, and the native graduates of our higher institutions have begun to show their strength and enlarge their views.
He has been a prominent physician there for a number of years, and was recently married to a lady of German descent.
No doubt he often invited attacks upon himself by a rashness born of his ardent sympathy for his fellow tribesmen.
Of course the obstacles to complete success that I have referred to still exist, and there are others as well.
Of alteratives and cordials no man doubts, be they simples or compounds.
The Commissioner looked at her.
"It was Fayle."
How did you get a lead through him?"
But it seems to be more than a spare-which brings us to that first lead we got.
Very expensive hired hands, but still just that.
"Around forty.
"The Federation Council-they're the ones we're working for directly-the Council's biggest concern is the very delicate political situation that's involved.
"Right.
She laughed delightedly.
"Mantelish began to get results with it," the Commissioner said.
"I can tell you most of what I know at the moment," said the Commissioner.
Quillan came back to his chair.
"That," said Commissioner Tate, "is only a little of it."
"Major," she said, "how about a tiny little refill on that Puya-about half?"
And then he learned something that should be important.
"You know," she said uncomfortably, "old Repulsive moved again while we were talking!
Did they want to kill it or grab it?"
"In what way?" Trigger asked.
What does Mantelish make of it?"
"It was in connection with our second lead."
"We haven't found out yet.
"When was that?"
It was just lying there in a cubicle.
Right here on the table.
"That's a point the Council is nervous about," he said.
"Probably."
It didn't make much difference.
There seem to be too many basic factors missing.
seven
What it seems to boil down to is that they might.
Did they try again?"
Most of them didn't know a thing we could use.
"One experiment was rather startling.
Which would be enough to tempt a lot of people to gamble very high for a chance to get control of the plasmoid process-and we know definitely that some people are gambling for it."
"Wonderful!
He does feel pleasant to touch.
There was a pause.
Right there on Harvest Moon!"
And that could take a few centuries."
"Yes."
The door closed.
"Grab it, was the dead brain report. Why?"
"In connection with the key unit?" Trigger asked.
Kitty cat pleasant!
Would make a difference, wouldn't it?
The Feds got there, fast, and dead brained the raider.
He did the same thing in one more place and then quit.
Mantelish talks of something he calls proximity influence.
That was around five minutes ago."
"Just wondering.
"What are you people doing?
"Weird beasties! But-let's see.
Nothing happened until he had finished.
He became more cautious with it after that.
"Is that one of the things you can't tell me about?"
Stood up for his rights, eh?"
If the professor didn't mind, things were about that far along.
"Moving where?" she asked.
Holati Tate said, "That's about it.
Trigger glanced down.
Then she smiled at Quillan.
Then he touched the plasmoid, and it fed the whole charge back to him. Apparently it was a fairly hefty dose."
"Tell you about that later."
"Holati, could those things ever become as valuable as people keep saying?
"Well, suppose that key unit is lost and stays lost.
There was a little pause.
The big one induces plasmoid activity, the little one modifies it.
So they need it."
She looked into it.
"Uh huh," Trigger said, lost in thought.
Before you and I left Manon.
"Well," Trigger admitted, "I could get along without the things indefinitely."
"Very likely."
"And what's everybody concluded from that?"
"Fayle's ship might have got wrecked accidentally, of course.
"Good for Repulsive!
They may be right."
"Oh?" Trigger picked up the Puya glass.
Each group works at its specialties, and the information gets correlated." He paused.
Now there's considerable doubt."
Somebody's got it."
And while I'm too old to run, I'm young enough to stand and fight.
Then he'd have to look downstairs for him.
And I'm still sitting up and taking nourishment.
She was mighty grateful, you bet, and I didn't see her again for a fortnight.
Take her by and large, she was a pretty cool, calm cucumber.
"no"
First and last, a good many men have gone gunning for me, but they've always planned the obsequies before they caught the deceased.
I was too busy that morning to quarrel, so I sent word that I would fix it up; and when I was driving by there next day the painters were hard at work on it.
But the first essential of a quiet funeral is a willing corpse.
That fetched old Buck Williams' ghost on the jump, you bet, but he said he hadn't laid eyes on Bud yet. They hauled the Sweet By and By with a drag net, but they couldn't get a rap from him.
For when it comes to funny business I'm something of a humorist myself.
So I threw in half a dozen cows to provide the refreshments.
The first can't harm you and the second can't help you.
I never sell goods without knowing where I can find them when I want them, and if these fellows try to put their forefeet in the trough, or start any shoving and crowding, they're going to find me forgetting my table manners, too.
For right there the old lady got up with a mighty set expression around her lips and marched out, muttering that it was just as she had thought all along-Bud wasn't there.
But next day she came again and paid down four bits, and Clytie reckoned that that ought to fetch Bud sure.
Had he joined the church before he started?
Graham's Extract: It Makes the Weak Strong.
And he found them.
The first thing I knew he was sicking the agents for the new typewriting machine on to me, and he kept them pounding away until they had made me give them a trial.
And the boy took all the fancy courses and trimmings at college.
The bears did quick work and kept the cash wheat coming in so lively that one settling day half a dozen of us had to get under the market to keep it from going to everlasting smash.
That was just before the general adoption of typewriters, when they were still in the experimental stage.
The fact was that I didn't think a fellow with Jim's training would be much good, anyhow.
That was where I caught the connection between a college education and business.
Naturally, a young man who expects to hold his own when he is thrown in with a lot of men like these must be as clean and sharp as a hound's tooth, or some other fellow's simply going to eat him up.
But I told him, and off he started hot foot to find the foreman.
It takes doctors, lawyers, engineers, poets, and I don't know what, to run the business, and I reckon that improvements which call for parsons will be creeping in next.
I thought I'd find out if he really was so red hot to work as he pretended to be; besides, I felt that perhaps I hadn't treated the boy just right, as I had delivered quite a jag of that wheat to his father myself.
So I raised his salary, and made him an assistant timekeeper and checker.
Used to call by about twice a week to find out if anything had turned up.
There's a chance for everything you have learned, from Latin to poetry, in the packing business, though we don't use much poetry here except in our street car ads., and about the only time our products are given Latin names is when the State Board of Health condemns them.
You can get them still, but you've got to go to Kankakee and take a hammerless along.
Of course he claimed a raise again for effecting such a saving, and we just had to allow it.
Seemed as if I couldn't get away from Graham's Extract, and whenever I saw it I gagged, for I knew it was costing me money that wasn't coming back; but every time I started to draw in my horns Jim talked to me, and showed me where there was a fortune waiting for me just around the corner.
It didn't take him long to decide that the Lord would attend to keeping up the visible supply of poetry, and that he had better turn his attention to the stocks of mess pork.
I told him I was sorry, but I couldn't do anything for him then; that we were letting men go, but I'd keep him in mind, and so on.
But Jim just kept plugging away at me between trips, until finally I took him off the road and told him to go ahead and try it in a small way.
And there're just as many chances for a fellow as ever, but they're a little gun shy, and you can't catch them by any such coarse method as putting salt on their tails.
Then it was all up with Mister Jim's job again.
Graham's Extract started out by being something that you could make beef tea out of-that was all.
I didn't expect you to carry off all the education in sight-I knew you'd leave a little for the next fellow. But I wanted you to form good mental habits, just as I want you to have clean, straight physical ones.
It seemed there was nothing you could cook that didn't need a dash of it.
It was just as I thought.
Some men learn all they know from books; others from life; both kinds are narrow.
But old Durham found out what every one learns who gets his ambitions mixed up with number two red-that there's a heap of it lying around loose in the country.
That was a good many years ago when the house was a much smaller affair. Jim's father had a lot of money till he started out to buck the universe and corner wheat.
That sporty way of answering, as if he was closing a bet, made me surer than ever that he was not cut out for a butcher.
So I think you'll find it safe to go short a little on the frills of education; if you want them bad enough you'll find a way to pick them up later, after business hours.
"Hello, Jim," I called; "do you still want that job?"
I noticed, too, when you were home Easter, that you were running to sporty clothes and cigarettes.
"Well, I tell you how it is, Jim," I said, looking up at him-he was one of those husky, lazy moving six footers-"I don't see any chance in the office, but I understand they can use another good, strong man in one of the loading gangs."
I thought that would settle Jim and let me out, for it's no joke lugging beef, or rolling barrels and tierces a hundred yards or so to the cars. But Jim came right back at me with, "Done.
I suppose you're asking why, if I'm so hot for education, I'm against this post-graduate course.
I forgot all about Jim until about three months later, when his name was handed up to me for a new place and a raise in pay.
The old man was mighty proud of Jim.
Finally, after about a month of this, he wore me down so that I stopped him one day as he was passing me on the street.
He kept me between a chill and a sweat all the time.
I'm glad the boys aren't down on you, but while the most popular man in his class isn't always a failure in business, being as popular as that takes up a heap of time.
Jim kept at this for three or four months, until his feet began to hurt him, I guess, and then he was out of a job again.
Said we ought to go for the consumer by advertising, and make the trade come to us, instead of chasing it up.
The Lord let us in on the ground floor, gave us corner lots, and then started in to improve the adjacent property.
It's the fellow who knows enough about practice to test his theories for blow holes that gives the world a shove ahead, and finds a fair margin of profit in shoving it.
The first are all theory; the second are all practice.
You're not going to be a poet or a professor, but a packer, and the place to take a post-graduate course for that calling is in the packing house.
He broke out in a new place every day, and every time he broke out it cost the house money.
That was so like Jim that I just laughed at first; besides, that sort of advertising was a pretty new thing then, and I was one of the old timers who didn't take any stock in it.
Jim made two trips without selling enough to keep them working overtime at the factory, and then he came into my office with a long story about how we were doing it all wrong.
There are sixteen ounces to the pound still, but two of them are wrapping paper in a good many stores.
I see you've been elected President of your class.
I remember one picture he got out showing sixteen cows standing between something that looked like a letter press, and telling how every pound or so of Graham's Extract contained the juice squeezed from a herd of steers.
But habits of thought ain't the only thing a fellow picks up at college.
It seems he had heard something of a new machine for registering the men, that did away with most of the timekeepers except the fellows who watched the machines, and he kept after the Superintendent until he got him to put them in.
I have every confidence in your ultimate good sense, and I guess you'll see the point without my elaborating with a meat ax my reasons for thinking that you've had enough college for the present.
We didn't have to know fractions to figure out our profits.
The fellow who hasn't had the training may be just as smart, but he's apt to paw the air when he's reaching for ideas.
There's nothing criminal about either, but I don't hire sporty clerks at all, and the only part of the premises on which cigarette smoking is allowed is the fertilizer factory.
But Jim hung on-said he'd taken a fancy to the house, and wanted to work for it.
I simply mention this in passing.
Thirty years ago, you could take an old muzzle loader and knock over plenty of ducks in the city limits, and Chicago wasn't Cook County then, either.
What we used to throw away is our profit.
PERCH A L'ALLEMANDE
BROILED PERCH
FRIED PERCH-two
PERCH A l a SICILY
PERCH SALAD
FRIED PERCH-three
Cook together four tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour.
BAKED PERCH
I consider it a very unladylike and slovenly trick."
"Yes, my pet, I will; but I thought you said you had no present for me?"
"Go and thank him: it is well worth it."
He put it in her hand, and ran away again.
"No," said he, "I think you have been a very good girl for quite a long time.
Kind mrs Brown, who had just finished helping her young charge all round, followed her to the window, "Never mind, dear," she said in her pleasant, cheery tone, patting Elsie's cheek and smoothing her hair "I've got some excellent glue, and I think I can stick it on again and make it almost as good as ever.
So come, sit down and eat your lunch, and don't fret any more."
"No, I won't," returned Enna, flatly; "she's got enough now."
"I wish you were, my pet; I always love to have you with me; but you know it wouldn't do; you have your little guests to entertain.
"No, indeed, thank you; they are too much like lessons."
"No, dearest," he said; "for though I, too, am fond of sweet things, I will not eat them while I refuse them to you."
Elsie ran out of the room and was back again almost in a moment, with the doll in her arms.
"I do believe he's just the crossest man alive!
When Elsie left her father she found that the Carringtons had just arrived.
"I don't know; nothing I guess," replied Lucy, indignantly.
She had an eager and growing thirst for knowledge, and was an apt scholar, whom any one with the least love for the profession might have delighted in teaching; and mr Dinsmore, a thorough scholar himself, and loving knowledge for its own sake-loving also his little pupil with all a father's fond, yearning affection-delighted in his task.
"Will you play jack stones? here are some smooth pebbles."
The motion was carried without a dissenting voice, and in a few moments they all set out, a very merry party, full of fun and frolic.
Elsie looked up in her father's face inquiringly.
There was lurking within his breast a vague consciousness that her father needed such a safeguard, but had it not.
"Do, papa," she urged, "it would give me pleasure to see you enjoying it."
I'm sure I am."
"Agreed!" said the others, "let's have a game."
Well, I like to see it; blushes are very becoming.
They had a very pleasant time, and returned barely in season to be dressed for dinner.
Elsie left her game to try to make peace.
But at length tea being over, and all, both old and young, assembled as if by common consent in the drawing room, it began to be whispered about that their curiosity was now on the point of being gratified.
"From your papa," she said.
"What are we going to do to day, Elsie?" asked Caroline.
"Here are blocks; will you build houses?"
"Doesn't your papa let you eat anything good, Elsie?" asked Mary Leslie across the table.
Aren't you glad?
"Oh! Enna, won't you give them back?" said Elsie, coaxingly; "you know Flora is a visitor, and we must be very polite to her."
They dined by themselves in the nursery, but were afterward taken down to the drawing room.
Elsie stood a moment looking much perplexed; then, with a brightening face, exclaimed in her cheerful, pleasant way, "Well, never mind, Flora, dear, I will get you my doll.
"Whatever you all prefer," said Elsie.
"Come, girls," she said, "let us run out and see them off; they're bringing up the horses.
"Beautiful! beautiful!" cried the children, clapping their hands and dancing about with delight, while their elders, perhaps equally pleased, expressed their admiration after a more staid and sober fashion.
mr Dinsmore"--to Elsie's papa, who just then came toward them-"you ought to be very proud of this child; she is the very image of yourself, and a perfect little beauty, too."
So, Elsie having first set the little ones to building block houses, supplied Harry Carrington-an older brother of Lucy's-with a book, and two younger boys with dissected maps to arrange, the four girls sat down in a circle on the carpet and began their game.
It was only a gold pencil.
I think your papa might have let you stay up a little longer; but he has promised that tonight-as we are to have the Christmas tree, and ever so much will be going on-you shall stay up till half past nine, if you like.
"Strict!
Good by, darling.
"No, papa," she said, "I do not mind, when people say such things, because I know the Bible says, 'Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain;' and in another place, 'He that flattereth his neighbor spreadeth a net for his feet.' So I will try to keep away from that lady; shall I not, papa?"
"He must be cross."
She held up her face for a kiss, which he gave.
A large Christmas tree had been set up at the further end of the room, and, with its myriad of lighted tapers, and its load of toys and bonbons, interspersed with many a richer and more costly gift, made quite a display.
"I won't break it, Elsie, indeed I won't," replied Flora, confidently; and Elsie sat down to her game again.
And see, there's Miss Adelaide in her riding dress and cap; how pretty she looks!
"Keep it in your pocket, and use it every day, won't you, papa?"
Flora turned to her as she entered.
"It is ten, my dear child, and high time you were in bed," he said, smiling at her look of astonishment.
"Please don't ask me, Lucy," replied the little girl, blushing deeply. "Papa always has a good reason for what he does, and he is just the dearest, kindest, and best father that ever anybody had."
"Is it half past nine already, papa?" she asked.
"Elsie," he said, as he caught sight of his little daughter, "go up to my dressing room."
I am too big for that; they are very nice for little children."
Lucy, who was standing at the window, turned quickly round.
"Ah!
"No, I haven't; I can't build a house with those," Flora said, with another sob.
"Here are some dissected maps, Mary," replied Elsie, opening a drawer; "would you not like them?"
And with a graceful good night to the company, the little girl left the room.
CHAPTER ELEVENTH
Has she any faults, Dinsmore?"
"Ah!
The ecclesiastical privileges, during barbarous times, had served as a check on the despotism of kings.
HENRY the eighth.
The supreme head of the church was a foreign potentate, guided by interests always different from those of the community, sometimes contrary to them.
He walked up to where Marguerite lay, and looked down into her face.
"I, myself," concluded Chauvelin, "must now very reluctantly leave you. AU REVOIR, fair lady.
The men had sprung to their feet, there was no need for further silence on their part; the very cliffs echoed the poor, heart broken woman's screams.
But the latter had not waited an instant.
A low moan escaped from the Jew's trembling lips.
Marguerite's aching heart stood still.
She felt, more than she heard, the men on the watch preparing for the fight.
The cleverest woman in Europe, the elegant and fashionable Lady Blakeney, who had dazzled London society with her beauty, her wit and her extravagances, presented a very pathetic picture of tired out, suffering womanhood, which would have appealed to any, but the hard, vengeful heart of her baffled enemy.
The door was partially open; one of the soldiers pushed it further, but within all was darkness, the charcoal fire only lighting with a dim, red light the furthest corner of the hut.
"There is no 'but.' I said, do you remember?"
"Pick that up," said Chauvelin to the sergeant, pointing to this white scrap, "and bring it to me."
I know it well."
"Bring the cowardly brute here," commanded Chauvelin.
"Percy, my husband, for God's sake fly!
"Answer!" he again commanded, as the Jew with trembling lips seemed too frightened to speak.
Against a rock, on a hard bed of stone, lay the unconscious figure of Marguerite Blakeney, while some few paces further on, the unfortunate Jew was receiving on his broad back the blows of two stout leather belts, wielded by the stolid arms of two sturdy soldiers of the Republic.
"What was the bargain?"
At any rate, there is a chance to get him yet.
Do not delay-and obey these instructions implicitly."
"But," added Chauvelin, with slow emphasis, "if you deceived me in your promise, you were to have a sound beating, one that would teach you not to tell lies."
"Bring the light in here!" he commanded eagerly, as he once more entered the hut.
"That will do," commanded Chauvelin, as the Jew's moans became more feeble, and the poor wretch seemed to have fainted away, "we don't want to kill him."
Within a few minutes their running footsteps had died away in the distance.
Her heart was broken with cruel anguish.
"Read it, sergeant," said the latter curtly.
Her senses told her that each, with sword in hand, was crouching, ready for the spring.
Chauvelin had not given up all hope.
Here," he added, turning to the soldiers, "the buckle end of your two belts to this confounded Jew."
"The Englishman is hoping to reach that creek.
"Yes, your Honour," stammered the poor wretch.
"But I ordered you just now, when the woman screamed, to rush in and let no one escape."
Quick, in every direction!"
I'll follow."
CHAPTER thirty THE SCHOONER
"Into it, my men, and let no one escape from that hut alive!"
Armand! why don't you fire?"
"There is a creek in a direct line from the 'Chat Gris'?"
We waited."
He smiled.
He must have remained behind, and was even now hiding somewhere about the cliffs; the patrols were still about, he would still be sighted, no doubt.
"You think?--You? . . ." said Chauvelin, almost choking with fury, "and you let them go . . ."
Marguerite as she heard, felt that her very life was slipping away, as if when that voice drew nearer, when that singer became entrapped . . .
"Hush! what was that?"
"Ah! by the bye! where is the Jew?"
They know it.
His face in the silvery light of the moon looked positively ghastly with terror: his eyes were wide open and almost glassy, and his whole body was trembling, as if with ague, while a piteous wail escaped his bloodless lips.
All three men listened attentively.
But don't kill him," he added drily.
"Close by here, citoyen," said Desgas; "I gagged him and tied his legs together as you commanded."
He had been deeply affected-this she believed, and she was still capable of deriving pleasure from the belief; but it was absurd that a man both so intelligent and so honourably dealt with should cultivate a scar out of proportion to any wound.
It would have proved that he believed she was firm-which was what she wished to seem to him.
This was not, as it may seem, merely a theory tinged with sarcasm.
Isabel candidly believed that his lordship would, in the usual phrase, get over his disappointment.
For me, I find it almost too much of one!
If I like this country at present it is only because it holds you.
"It may not matter to him, but it matters to one's self."
Isabel offered no answer to this assertion, which her companion made with an air of great confidence.
But his eyes asked it-and his handshake, when he bade me good bye."
"When a man's of that infallible mould what does it matter to him what one feels?"
Henrietta looked disappointed, and her steady gaze betrayed it. "You don't ask that right-as if you thought it important.
Is it because you've suspected?"
"Yes, you're changed; you've got new ideas over here," her friend continued.
Isabel waited.
"If you mean that I had any idea with regard to mr Goodwood-!" But she faltered before her friend's implacable glitter.
The feeling pressed upon her; it made the air sultry, as if there were to be a change of weather; and the weather, socially speaking, had been so agreeable during Isabel's stay at Gardencourt that any change would be for the worse.
I had come to see you with the hope that you would let me bring you over to my conviction; my reasons for entertaining this hope had been of the best.
"They're very bad in America, but I've five perfect ones in Florence."
Her meditations were presently interrupted by the arrival of a servant who handed her a letter.
CHAPTER eleven
"Yes; but they shouldn't interfere with the old ones when the old ones have been the right ones."
It seemed to her at last that she would do well to take a book; formerly, when heavy hearted, she had been able, with the help of some well chosen volume, to transfer the seat of consciousness to the organ of pure reason.
"It's not a grand passion; I'm very sure it's not that."
I don't like Miss Stackpole-everything about her displeases me; she talks so much too loud and looks at one as if one wanted to look at her-which one doesn't.
"Ah, you do care for him!" her visitor rang out.
Isabel turned about again.
But she was notified for the first time, on this occasion, of the finite character of Bunchie's intellect; hitherto she had been mainly struck with its extent.
"No, that would be a great pain; but it's not that."
I'm affected by everything."
"I quite believe that." Henrietta might be wanting in delicacy, but it touched the girl, all the same, to hear this declaration.
I could have talked a long time to such a listener; he was so quiet, so intense; he drank it all in."
I have been to England before, but have never enjoyed it much.
And this was the only reward that Ralph got for his compliment.
"They're the companions of freemen," Henrietta retorted.
"They're the companions of their servants-the Irish chambermaid and the negro waiter.
"He'll find you changed," the latter pursued.
No, you are not, and you never will be, arbitrary or capricious.
This document proved short and may be given entire.
Isabel failed even to smile back and in a moment she said: "Did he ask you to speak to me?"
Isabel made for the moment as if to deny this charge; instead of which, however, she presently answered: "It's very true.
She entertained herself for some moments with talking to the little terrier, as to whom the proposal of an ownership divided with her cousin had been applied as impartially as possible-as impartially as Bunchie's own somewhat fickle and inconstant sympathies would allow.
It was perhaps because her mind was oppressed with this image that she suffered some days to elapse before she took occasion to say to Isabel: "My dear friend, I wonder if you're growing faithless."
I see his face now, and his earnest absorbed look while I talked.
"I said you were on the whole the finest creature I know."
"Faithless?
"No, he told me nothing; that's how I knew it," said Henrietta cleverly. "He said very little about you, but I spoke of you a good deal."
"Should you like me better if I were your butler, dear?" her husband asked.
"You say that right.
You told me that I'm not disagreeable to you, and I believe it; for I don't see why that should be.
"I like to be treated as an American lady."
I had a good deal of talk with him; he has come after you."
"I've not much control of my thoughts, but I'll do my best," said Isabel.
"I believe you hope it about as much as I believe him capable of it."
"Did he tell you so?"
"Well, I don't care; you have changed.
CASPAR GOODWOOD.
You're changed-you're thinking of other things."
The letter bore the London postmark and was addressed in a hand she knew-that came into her vision, already so held by him, with the vividness of the writer's voice or his face.
"I remember now that phrase in your letter, but I confess I had forgotten it.
"Faithless to my country then?"
"Will you really think of it?
You've never asked me what it is.
This at present is the dearest wish of yours faithfully,
"Suspected what?
Of late, it was not to be denied, literature had seemed a fading light, and even after she had reminded herself that her uncle's library was provided with a complete set of those authors which no gentleman's collection should be without, she sat motionless and empty handed, her eyes bent on the cool green turf of the lawn.
Middling indeed!
"Ah, that I hope will never be.
"I asked him, and he said he meant to do nothing," Miss Stackpole answered.
That's what I wish to be sure of."
"Not till I've seen Europe!" said Miss Stackpole.
You admitted that you were unreasonable, and it was the only concession you would make; but it was a very cheap one, because that's not your character.
"My dear child, you certainly encouraged him."
"Ah, what it matters to me-that's not what we're discussing," said Isabel with a cold smile.
They share their work."
MY DEAR MISS ARCHER-I don't know whether you will have heard of my coming to England, but even if you have not it will scarcely be a surprise to you.
"But I don't believe that; he's not a man to do nothing.
"Whatever he does will always be right," Isabel repeated.
"What did you say about me?" Isabel asked.
"Thank you for doing so." And Isabel turned away.
"Tell me what you mean, and I'll think of that."
Her suspense indeed was dissipated the second day.
Henrietta gazed at her, in silence, for a period which tried Isabel's patience, so that our heroine added at last: "Do you mean that you're going to be married?"
"I don't know what you mean," Henrietta replied.
I expect him here any day."
"I'm very sorry you did that," she observed at last.
"I shall say it better to mr Goodwood himself."
"I hope so," said Isabel; "one should get as many new ideas as possible."
I protested against it. You in fact appeared to accept my protest and to admit that I had the right on my side.
You're not the girl you were a few short weeks ago, and mr Goodwood will see it.
She pretended to herself, however, that she thought the event impossible, and, later, she communicated her disbelief to her friend.
"If that's the way you desire to treat them, no wonder you don't like America."
"I don't think I should: you wouldn't at all have the tenue."
He is a man of high, bold action.
At the mention of mr Goodwood's name she had turned a little pale.
As a rule I don't think I suspect," said Isabel.
This contribution to the discussion, however, Miss Stackpole rejected with scorn.
This time her companion was grave.
She'd like Gardencourt a great deal better if it were a boarding house.
What have you to tell me?"
"Very likely.
"I hope he'll hate me then," said Isabel.
Faithless to you, Henrietta?"
I never saw an ugly man look so handsome."
If they were not the best in the world they were the worst, but there was nothing middling about an American hotel.
"The companions of freemen-I like that, Miss Stackpole," said Ralph. "It's a beautiful description."
We shall never get on together therefore, and there's no use trying."
"Do you call the domestics in an American household 'slaves'?" Miss Stackpole enquired.
Looking up, however, as she mechanically folded it she saw Lord Warburton standing before her.
He carried out his resolve with a great deal of tact, and the young lady found in renewed contact with him no obstacle to the exercise of her genius for unshrinking enquiry, the general application of her confidence.
"Ah!" Isabel responded.
I did encourage him." And then she asked if her companion had learned from mr Goodwood what he intended to do.
"What I mean is that mr Goodwood came out in the steamer with me."
This position I achieved by gravitation upwards.
My elder brother-Tom as I must call him in my narrative, though the world, I think, knows him best as Adolphus-was at Oxford. My father and I lived together, he having no means of living except what came from the farm.
Boots, waistcoats, and pocket handkerchiefs, which, with some slight superveillance, were at the command of other scholars, were closed luxuries to me.
Under crushing disadvantages, with few or no books of reference, with immediate access to no library, he worked at his most ungrateful task with unflagging industry.
My tutor took me without the fee; but when I heard him declare the fact in the pupil room before the boys, I hardly felt grateful for the charity.
My father's clients deserted him.
Into the hay field on holidays I was often compelled to go,--not, I fear, with much profit. My father's health was very bad.
There have been hot words between us, for perfect friendship bears and allows hot words.
This was, I think, in eighteen twenty seven.
I remembered constantly that address from dr Butler when I was a little boy.
I was a sizar at a fashionable school, a condition never premeditated.
And it is one also for success in which a sufficient capital is indispensable.
It is the nature of boys to be cruel.
Then another and a different horror fell to my fate. My college bills had not been paid, and the school tradesmen who administered to the wants of the boys were told not to extend their credit to me.
The furniture was mean and scanty.
I do not doubt that I was dirty;--but I think that he was cruel.
MY EDUCATION. eighteen fifteen to eighteen thirty four.
It broke my heart, knowing myself to be innocent, and suffering also under the almost equally painful feeling that the other three-no doubt wicked boys-were the curled darlings of the school, who would never have selected me to share their wickedness with them.
And a worse thing came than the stoppage of the supplies from the shopkeepers. Every boy had a shilling a week pocket money, which we called battels, and which was advanced to us out of the pocket of the second master.
Our table was poorer, I think, than that of the bailiff who still hung on to our shattered fortunes.
CHAPTER one
He purchased various dark gloomy chambers in and about Chancery Lane, and his purchases always went wrong.
There were exhibitions from Harrow-which I never got.
But in those school days he was, of all my foes, the worst.
But he was never idle unless when suffering.
dr Butler only became Dean of Peterborough, but his successor lived to be Archbishop of Canterbury.
And I was taken there with him.
At last I was driven to rebellion, and there came a great fight,--at the end of which my opponent had to be taken home for a while.
When I left Harrow I was all but nineteen, and I had at first gone there at seven.
After a while my brother left Winchester and accompanied my father to America.
Of course I was ill dressed and dirty.
On one awful day the second master announced to me that my battels would be stopped.
No doubt my appearance was against me.
I have seen it since in the town of Cincinnati,--a sorry building!
When he died, three numbers out of eight had been published by subscription; and are now, I fear, unknown, and buried in the midst of that huge pile of futile literature, the building up of which has broken so many hearts.
There were ever so many other punishments accumulated on our heads.
Mine was only done a day or two before the holidays.
That I, or any man, should tell everything of himself, I hold to be impossible. Who could endure to own the doing of a mean thing?
He had no knowledge, and, when he took this second farm, no capital.
But I could not look my feelings.
My mother went first, with my sisters and second brother.
The result was that, as a part of his daily exercise, he thrashed me with a big stick.
I cannot bethink me of aught that he ever did for my gratification; but for my welfare,--for the welfare of us all,--he was willing to make any sacrifice.
Of amusement, as far as I can remember, he never recognised the need.
In those days he never punished me, though I think I grieved him much by my idleness; but in passion he knew not what he did, and he has knocked me down with the great folio Bible which he always used.
I had not only no friends, but was despised by all my companions.
And now, when it came to the turn of any servant, he received sixty nine shillings instead of seventy, and the cause of the defalcation was explained to him.
Once I made a futile attempt for a scholarship at Trinity, Oxford,--but failed again.
If you wish to say any word as from yourself, let it be done in the shape of a preface or introductory chapter." At the end there is a postscript: "The publication, if made at all, should be effected as soon as possible after my death." My father died on the sixth of December, eighteen eighty two.
He was much interested in, and was very much distressed by, the unhappy condition of the country.
Additions of any other sort there have been none; the few footnotes are my father's own additions or corrections.
Every day, until his last illness, my father continued his work.
He could not rid his mind of the fact that he had a story already in the course of publication, but which he had not yet completed.
But I would not wish that anything should be added to the memoir.
He continued to ride to the end of his life: he liked the exercise, and I think it would have distressed him not to have had a horse in his stable.
Blackwood and Sons in eighteen eighty four.
He did not speak about it at length, but said that he had written me a letter, not to be opened until after his death, containing instructions for publication.
He would not otherwise have been happy.
So much I would say by way of preface.
And I have made no alterations.
This journey did him much good, for he found that the softer atmosphere relieved his asthma, from which he had been suffering for nearly eighteen months. In August following he made another trip to Ireland, but from this journey he derived less benefit.
It will be seen, therefore, that my duty has been merely to pass the book through the press conformably to the above instructions.
He went there in May of that year, and was then absent nearly a month.
He had at last resolved to give up his favourite amusement, and that as far as he was concerned there should be an end of it.
In the summer of eighteen eighty my father left London, and went to live at Harting, a village in Sussex, but on the confines of Hampshire.
But he never spoke willingly on hunting matters.
It may be well that I should put a short preface to this book.
At certain moments she beheld him like a lighted candle; at others she felt him like a claw.
This rascal of composite order was, in all probability, some Fleming from Lille, in Flanders, a Frenchman in Paris, a Belgian at Brussels, being comfortably astride of both frontiers.
His coquetry consisted in drinking with the carters.
Everything trembled at the sound of her voice,--window panes, furniture, and people.
But her maternity stopped short with her daughters, and, as we shall see, did not extend to boys.
Besides, he was an admirable poacher, and quoted for his skill in shooting.
He had a certain cold and tranquil laugh, which was particularly dangerous.
He had something of the look of sailors, who are accustomed to screw up their eyes to gaze through marine glasses. Thenardier was a statesman.
As for his prowess at Waterloo, the reader is already acquainted with that.
Cosette was her only servant; a mouse in the service of an elephant.
He smoked a big pipe.
Whatever may have been the obstinate injustice of destiny in this case, Thenardier was one of those men who understand best, with the most profundity and in the most modern fashion, that thing which is a virtue among barbarous peoples and an object of merchandise among civilized peoples,--hospitality.
She was not even the mistress.
Thenardier had just passed his fiftieth birthday; Madame Thenardier was approaching her forties, which is equivalent to fifty in a woman; so that there existed a balance of age between husband and wife.
No one had ever succeeded in rendering him drunk.
He declared that he had "a system." In addition, he was a great swindler.
He wore a blouse, and under his blouse an old black coat.
He composed the travellers' tariff card in a superior manner, but practised eyes sometimes spied out orthographical errors in it. Thenardier was cunning, greedy, slothful, and clever.
In this same year, eighteen twenty three, Thenardier was burdened with about fifteen hundred francs' worth of petty debts, and this rendered him anxious.
She had a beard.
His cunning began here; he smiled habitually, by way of precaution, and was almost polite to everybody, even to the beggar to whom he refused half a farthing.
Every new comer who entered the tavern said, on catching sight of Madame Thenardier, "There is the master of the house." A mistake.
What takes place within these souls when they have but just quitted God, find themselves thus, at the very dawn of life, very small and in the midst of men all naked!
Her big face, dotted with red blotches, presented the appearance of a skimmer.
She swore splendidly; she boasted of being able to crack a nut with one blow of her fist.
He allowed it to be thought that he was an educated man.
This is the worst species; hypocrisy enters into it.
She did everything about the house,--made the beds, did the washing, the cooking, and everything else.
The man and the woman each had a different method: Cosette was overwhelmed with blows-this was the woman's; she went barefooted in winter-that was the man's doing.
She worked; he created.
He made pretensions to literature and to materialism. There were certain names which he often pronounced to support whatever things he might be saying,--Voltaire, Raynal, Parny, and, singularly enough, Saint Augustine.
He did not disdain his servants, which caused his wife to dispense with them.
"In dodging him among the trees I was heedless for a moment and did not see just where I was going.
"Isn't he lovely!"' cried peter, and added in the next breath, "Who is that with him?"
Listen to that!
"What kind of an accident was it, Redcoat, and how did it happen?" he asked.
Wings and tail were pure black and all the rest was a beautiful scarlet.
"That's Rosebreast.
"Don't be afraid, Redcoat," he whispered.
"Of course it is," retorted Jenny.
"It's Farmer Brown's boy and I'm sure he won't hurt you. Perhaps he can help you." Then peter scampered off for a short distance and sat up to watch what would happen.
Carefully he examined the wing to see if any bones were broken.
"Do you mean to say that they live on buds and blossoms?" cried peter. "I never heard of such a thing."
"Broadwing the Hawk tried to catch me," sobbed Redcoat.
He looked puzzled.
"No, I don't mean Welcome Robin's song," snapped Jenny.
Welcome Robin's song is one of good cheer, but this one is of pure happiness.
Redcoat held up his right wing and sure enough there was a little stick projecting from both sides close up to the shoulder.
I struck a sharp pointed dead twig and drove it right through my right wing."
We've just got our nest half built, and I don't know what I shall do if anything happens to Redcoat.
You can ask more silly questions than anybody of my acquaintance," retorted Jenny Wren.
Instantly Jenny Wren popped her head out of her doorway.
Seeing Farmer Brown's boy coming through the Old Orchard peter decided that it was high time for him to depart.
Farmer Brown's boy understood instantly that something was wrong with one wing, and running forward, he caught Redcoat.
"Oh, dear, whatever shall I do, peter Rabbit?
Now you speak of it, Jenny, that song IS quite different from Welcome Robin's."
"It is the thought of what MAY happen to me."
Hide!" mrs Tanager flew off a short distance to one side and began to cry as if in the greatest distress.
"What are you laughing at?" demanded Jenny crossly.
Somehow at that gentle touch Redcoat lost much of his fear, and a little hope sprang in his heart.
She was dressed chiefly in brown and grayish colors with a little buff here and there and with dark streaks on her breast.
Fluttering on the ground was a bird than whom not even Glory the Cardinal was more beautiful.
Then he sat there for some time as if fearful of trying that injured wing. Meanwhile mrs Tanager came and fussed about him and talked to him and coaxed him and made as much of him as if he were a baby.
It is just peter Rabbit.
She cocked her head on one side to listen, then looked down at peter, and her sharp little eyes snapped.
There was no beautiful rose color about mrs Grosbeak.
Poor Redcoat, with the old look of terror in his eyes, fluttered along, trying to find something under which to hide.
Right away peter was full of sympathy.
"What good are a pair of long ears if they can't tell one song from another?
Of coarse Farmer Brown's boy saw Redcoat.
"Of course they don't live on buds and blossoms.
His wings were black with patches of white on them.
"And what anybody wants to scold like that for when they can sing as mr Wren can, is too much for me," retorted peter.
Redcoat hopped from branch to branch until he was halfway up the tree.
Over each eye was a whitish line.
At first peter had eyes only for the wonderful beauty of Redcoat.
That's a better song than Welcome Robin's.
The look of terror which had been in the eyes of Redcoat died out, and he stopped fluttering and simply lay panting.
"Isn't it dreadful, peter Rabbit, to have such an accident?
I wouldn't have a pair of ears like yours for anything in the world, peter Rabbit."
The wing was bleeding a little.
None were, and after holding Redcoat a few minutes he carefully set him up in a tree and withdrew a short distance.
peter looked up to see a bird a little smaller than Welcome Robin.
"mrs Grosbeak, of course.
Now run along, peter Rabbit, and don't bother me any more."
"Oh, peter," he gasped, "you don't know how glad I am that it is only you.
"I don't hear any strange voice," said she.
"But I don't mind the pain," he hastened to say.
Redcoat nodded.
Just then there were two or three rather sharp, squeaky notes from the top of one of the trees.
You don't have anything to fear from me," cried peter.
One song was a little louder and clearer than the others because it came from a tree very close at hand, the very tree from which those squeaky notes had come just a few minutes before. peter suspected that that must be the song Jenny Wren meant.
"The way you are staring, peter Rabbit, one would think that you had really heard something new and worth while."
It was Redcoat the Tanager.
"What is it, Redcoat?
She was dressed almost wholly in light olive green and greenish yellow.
"Who's that?" peter Rabbit pricked up his long ears and stared up at the tops of the trees of the Old Orchard.
At that very instant mr Wren began to scold as only he and Jenny can. peter looked up at Jenny and winked slyly.
If they did they would soon starve to death, for buds and blossoms don't last long.
"You poor little thing.
Whatever shall I do?" sobbed Redcoat.
"Can't you fly up just a little way so as to get off the ground?" she cried anxiously.
peter listened.
"Don't you dare laugh at me!
"For the same reason that you bite off sweet clover blossoms and leaves," replied Jenny Wren tartly.
Altogether she looked more as if she might be a big member of the Sparrow family than the wife of handsome Rosebreast.
While Rosebreast sang, mrs Grosbeak was very busily picking buds and blossoms from the tree.
"What is she doing that for?" inquired peter.
"I knew Farmer Brown's boy would help him, and I'm so glad he found him," cried peter happily and started for the dear Old Briar patch.
I've had a terrible accident, and I don't know what I am to do.
"There!" cried peter.
peter heard the sound of heavy footsteps, and looking back, saw that Farmer Brown's boy was coming.
His head, throat and back were black.
"There!
No one with any eyes at all could have helped seeing him, because of that wonderful scarlet coat.
It was about the size of Redwing the Blackbird.
Then quite suddenly it came over peter that something was wrong with Redcoat, and he hurried forward to see what the trouble might be.
I can't fly, and if I have to stay on the ground some enemy will be sure to get me.
But it was his breast that made peter catch his breath with a little gasp of admiration, for that breast was a beautiful rose red.
"She doesn't look the least bit like him."
This was quite true.
She looked no more like beautiful Redcoat than did mrs Grosbeak like Rosebreast.
Who else would it be?" sputtered Jenny rather crossly, for she was still a little put out because she had been laughed at.
You poor, beautiful little creature," said Farmer Brown's boy softly as he saw the cruel twig sticking through Redcoats' shoulder.
It was Rosebreast the Grosbeak.
"That is Rosebreast singing up there, and there he is right in the top of that tree.
The rest of him underneath was white.
He was puzzled.
If there is any one thing I can't stand it is being laughed at."
"Does it pain you dreadfully?" asked peter.
You ask Farmer Brown's boy who helps him most in his potato patch, and he'll tell you it's the Grosbeaks. They certainly do love potato bugs.
He and mrs Rosebreast have been here for quite a little while.
Redcoat heard the rustle of Peter's feet among the dry leaves and at once began to flap and flutter in an effort to fly away, but he could not get off the ground.
So he scampered for the Green Forest, lipperty lipperty lip.
What shall I do, peter?
"Do you mean Welcome Robin's song?" he asked rather sheepishly, for he had a feeling that he would be the victim of Jenny Wren's sharp tongue.
"If you don't know Rosebreast the Grosbeak, peter Rabbit, you certainly must have been blind and deaf ever since you were born.
CHAPTER twenty eight.
"I would never have guessed it," said peter.
"We'll have to get that out right away," continued Farmer Brown's boy, stroking Redcoat ever so gently.
Then, doing his best to be careful and to hurt as little as possible, he worked the other part of the twig out from the under side.
There!
In two words, sir, if you mean to charge him before the magistrates with attempting your life, I'll take my Bible oath he did attempt it, and you may call me as your witness.
The one way of putting a stop to murdering mischief (if murdering mischief it might be) was to trust Miss Cristel.
Gloody at once acknowledged that we had no proof.
"I didn't dare speak to you about it; you wouldn't have believed me.
I can't look you in the face, and tell you of it." He walked away to the window.
If I hadn't kept my temper, I might have killed him."
Very good.
"I happened to look at the boat," he said, "and I missed the oars.
He turned pale when he felt the floor shaken by your fall.
mr Roylake, he kicked me.
"Nothing, sir."
"Then sit down, Gloody, and make a clean breast of it."
Had we any proof to justify us?
"Flew into a furious rage.
"Do you think he saw through it?
"And when you looked at Miss Cristel, and she was too busy with her brooch to notice you, was that another signal?"
I QUIT THE WRECK.
Indeed I understood that my only hope of deliverance lay in being picked up; and that, though by heading east I should be clinging to the stormy parts, I was more likely to meet with a ship hereabouts than by sailing into the great desolation of the north-west.
Here were kept the stores for the crew.
Everything ought to be left in that case to suggestions within normal limits, in the form of good example and persuasions, authority and discipline, love and sympathy.
This opposition argues as follows: Hypnotic influence brings the patient under the will control of the hypnotizer and thus destroys his own freedom.
A similar unbalancing influence emanates from overstrong contrasts of poverty and comfort.
The community becomes more and more strongly aware that too many factors of our modern society urge the church to undertake non religious work.
That is indeed one of the central dangers of all non medical suggestive cures, that while any belief may cure through the mere emotional power of the act of believing, the content of the belief gains an undeserved appearance of truth.
All that society can do is, therefore, not to remodel the manifoldness of brains, but to shape the conditions of life in such a way that the weak and unstable brains also have a greater chance to live their lives without conflicts with the community.
The emotional stability and emotional enlargement of the mind is perhaps most neglected in our educational schemes.
The application of reenforced suggestion or even of hypnotism in the doctor's office is even for him no possible source of danger.
For the cure the psychotherapist has to aim toward the cathartic result.
When we spoke of the treatment of the sick, we had always to emphasize that the suggestion cures symptoms but not diseases.
A child who finds some difficulty in sticking seriously to his tasks might learn now this and now that under the influence of hypnotic suggestions but he would remain entirely untrained for mastering the next lesson.
The possibilities of overlooking symptoms which ought to suggest an entirely different treatment, or of adjusting the treatment badly to the special physical conditions, or of ignoring the desirable physical supplement by drugs, or of creating unintentionally by suggestion injurious effects, are always open when medical amateurs undertake such work.
Freest from such implications is certainly the hypnotic method of the physician who does not need the strong religious reenforcement of the suggestion because he reenforces instead the suggestibility of the patient by slight influences on his senses.
To work towards this end does not mean to aim towards the impossible and undesirable end of making all men alike, but to give to all, in spite of the differences which nature and society condition, the greatest possible inner completeness and outer usefulness.
Wherever a reasonable amount of own will force and attention can be expected to overcome the antagonistic influence, there artificial hypnotic influence ought to be avoided.
This is also the most destructive effect of social and legal injustice; emotions are strangulated and then begin to work mischief.
For instance, I have steadily refused requests of students and others to use hypnotism for the purpose of overcoming merely bad habits, such as the habit of biting the nails.
With such a training later on even the temptations of alcoholic beverages would lose their danger.
The same is true of any overuse of coffee and tea and tobacco, and as a matter of course still more the habitual use of the drugs like the popular headache powders and sleeping medicines.
Needless to say that any hypnotization for mere amusement and as a parlor trick ought to be considered as criminal.
It is an objection from the standpoint of morality, belonging therefore entirely to the purposive view of the mind, but we have now reached a point where it is our duty to do justice to this purposive view too.
It would be better if there were more suffering in the world than that the existence of the moral will should be undermined.
Nothing seems more unfit to give a deeper meaning to life and a higher value.
To make clear this purposive side of the case as against the causal one which alone interested the physician, I may add a few features to the short report as a typical example.
The latter has to strengthen those powers by which the boy or girl by special natural fitness promises to be especially efficient and happy.
The community should take care early that secret feelings are avoided, that the child is cured from all sullenness which stores up the emotion instead of discharging it.
It must not be forgotten that the decomposition of the brain molecules can never be restituted by anything but rest, and ultimately by sleep.
Here again we have not a special class of brains which are criminal; but we have an endless variety of brains with a greater or smaller predisposition for antisocial outbreaks.
And this is no longer confined to the physician but must be intrusted to all organs of the community. And here more than in the case of disease, the causal point of view of the physician ought to be brought into harmony with the purposive view of the social reformer, of the educator and of the moralist.
For that end society may take over directly from the workshop of the psychotherapist quite a number of almost technical methods.
From whatever starting point we may come, we are led to the conviction that the physician alone is called to administer psychotherapeutic work, but that he needs a thorough psychological training besides his medical one.
Not less injurious than the strong drinks are the cards.
Even where sound religion without superstition and without pseudophilosophy stands behind the therapeutic work, the community will not give up the question whether the church does not necessarily neglect by it the interests which are superior.
Often this is coupled with telepathic fancies.
But with this enrichment of feelings the disciplinary influence too has to go through the whole social life. Where art is sensational and the church hysterical,--in short, where the community stirs up overstrong feelings,--the wholesome balance is lost again.
He put me under his treatment october sixth and that day cut me down by hypnotic treatment to nine grains a day or three doses of three grains a day.
And yet if there was one thought which controlled our discussion from the beginning, it was certainly the conviction that this causal view itself is only an instrument in the service of idealistic endeavors; the reality of man's life is the reality of will and freedom directed towards ideals.
There is too much or too little of a certain mental process and just for that reason there must be a steady and continuous transition from the normal to the entirely abnormal.
Whether pedagogy and criminology are to make use of the services of psychotherapy is thus certainly an open question.
All that involves the conviction that even the experimental psychologist as such is not prepared to enter into medical treatment; and a "Psychological Clinic," managed by a psychologist who is not a doctor of medicine, is certainly not better than a church clinic.
It is in a way not psychical therapy but psychical hygiene.
A forcible book of recent days calls the suggestive power of the psychotherapist "The Great Psychological Crime." It says to the hypnotist: "By your own testimony, you stand convicted of applying a process which deprives your subjects of the inalienable right and power of individual self control.
In the field of the intellect, the community must take care that thoroughness of training and accuracy of information is rigidly demanded and not thrust out by an easy going superficiality.
Or there may be negative suggestibility, by which a moral admonition stirs up a vivid idea of the opposite.
He has to learn learning and not only to play with knowledge, he has to learn to force his attention in adjustment to those factors of civilization which are foreign to his personal tendencies and perhaps unsympathetic.
Yes, the artificial reenforcement of such special features would deprive education of that which is the most essential, namely, the development of the power to overcome difficulties by own energy.
But after a long experience, I have my doubts as to whether a man was ever cured in such a way by hypnotism of serious disturbances and of those anomalous actions which the critics want to see overcome by the patient's own moral efforts.
He feels a simple impulse to go to the table and lift the book and, as no stronger natural desire and no moral objection stand in the way, he carries out that meaningless impulse and perhaps even invents a foolish motive to explain to himself why he wanted to look at that book.
The expert ought to replace the amateur in every field.
To hypnotize or to perform any persistent psychotherapeutic treatment may thus be dangerous, if it is done by the unfit.
No theory of the world and of God ought to gain authority over the mind from such an external motive as a belief in its curative effects.
I myself have seen promising results.
That means from the start an effort to secure balance between general education and particular development.
But if we were to strike out all suggestive influences from social life, we should give up social life itself.
To reduce these abnormalities means to secure a more stable equilibrium and thus to avoid social damages, and at the same time to prevent the growth of the abnormality to pathological dimensions.
Again in the field of will, we want the strong, spontaneous, independent will which is not frightened by discomfort and not discouraged by obstacles, and yet we want the will which is not stubborn and selfish but which subordinates itself to the larger will of the social group and to the eternal will of the norm.
At this time I had the worst two days of my life.
I cannot even acknowledge the right of psychologists to make hypnotic experiments merely for the psychological experiment's sake.
What is gained if some nervous disorders are helped by belief, if the belief itself devastates our intellectual culture and brings the masses down again to a view of the world which has all the earmarks of barbarism?
The mere learning is of course on both sides only a fraction of what the community has to develop in the youth.
Yet while thoroughness demands concentration in one direction, society must with the same earnestness insist on well rounded general education and continuity of general interests through life.
We recognized from the start that the abnormal mind never introduces any new elements but is characterized only by a change of proportions.
The play of our children is too little adjusted to this task.
In any case the saloon and its humiliating indecency must disappear and every temptation to intemperance should be removed.
The worst time of all was a cut from four injections of a fourth of a grain each to four of one eighth of a grain each, which was about january tenth.
On the contrary, every suggestion has to rely on the efforts and struggles of the patient himself and all that the psychotherapists can give him is help in his own moral fight.
We have discussed before the injuries which might result from the administration of such powerful psychotherapeutic effects through the best meaning minister, but we can extend this fear to anyone who has not systematically studied medicine and to a certain degree normal and abnormal psychology.
From the multiplication table to the highest cultural studies in college, the youth is to be adjusted to the material of our civilization without any concession to the emasculating desire to adjust civilization simply to the particular youth.
At the end of the week I was cut off by hypnotic suggestion half a grain and this put me to fighting the desire again.
If that were immoral, we should have to make up our minds that all education and training were perverted with such immoral elements.
No character is perfect.
With young boys who through unfortunate influence have caught a tendency, for instance, to steal, and where the fault does not yield to sympathetic reasoning and to punishment, an early hypnotic treatment might certainly be tried.
The life at home and in public ought to be manifold and expansive but ought to avoid over excitement and over anxiety.
Free election of life's work and unyielding mental discipline in the service of the common demands should thus steadily cooeperate.
The varieties which nature really produces are brains which are more liable than others to produce antisocial actions.
As long as we discussed the problem entirely from the standpoint of the physician, no other view of mental life except the causal one could be in question.
In the best case it brings a certain rest to some brain centers by engaging other brain parts.
For this reason it leaves too many unprepared for the world of art and for the emotional experiences of real life.
More important, it would leave undeveloped that power which the youth especially needs to acquire by serious education, the power to master what does not appeal to the personal likings and interests.
The good resolution and the bad one can be suggested, the good example and the bad can be effective; both encouragement of the noble and imitation of the evil may work with the same mental technique.
The situation is different as soon as the particular surroundings have brought it about that such a brain with reduced powers has entered a criminal career.
It was a moral victory when he finally reached the point at which he went for several weeks without any desire for morphine and finally presented the remaining tablets to a hospital. And yet there would not have been the least chance for his winning this ethical victory without the outer help of the hypnotist.
It is quite true that if I hypnotize a man and suggest to him to take up after awaking the book which lies on my table, he follows my suggestion without conflict and in a certain sense without freedom.
It is no chance that in countries of mixed Protestant and Catholic civilization, the number of suicides is larger in Protestant regions than in the Catholic ones where the confessional relieves the suppressed emotions of the masses.
For the first few months, I found great relief after every injection of morphine, but soon I could not get the same easy feeling and could eat but very little and what sleep I got was in the daytime.
Not less difficult and not less connected with the mental hygiene is the alcohol problem.
All life becomes a psychophysical mechanism and from that point of view man's thinking and acting become the necessary outcome of the foregoing conditions.
The fear suggests itself that the spiritual achievement may become hampered, that in the competition of the church with the other agencies of social life the particular church task may be pushed to the background, and that thus the church in imitating that which others can do just as well or better loses the power to do that which the church alone can do.
The whole social life must shape itself in such a way that everyone finds the best possible chances to perfect this harmonious growth.
We recognized that mental disturbances were often the result of suppressed emotion and repressed wishes.
On the one side it demands a systematic discipline of the emotions, on the other a healthy stimulation of emotions.
Whenever we aim to produce changes in the world, we must calculate the effects through the means of this causal construction, but we never have a right to forget that this calculation itself is therefore only a tool and that our reality, in which our duties and our real aims lie, is itself outside of this construction. The psychotherapist wants to produce effects inasmuch as he wants to cure disease.
The one without the other creates a lack of mental balance which is the most favorable condition for a pathological disturbance.
The efforts in that direction have to begin with the earliest infancy and are at no age to be considered as finished; the whole school work and to a high degree the professional work has to be subordinated to such endeavor.
More important than mere physical hygiene is the demand that a sound character and a sound temperament are also to be built up, at the side of a sound interest.
The thought of crime now becomes a sort of obsession or rather an autosuggestion.
Physical exercise is certainly not such restitution.
In the service of our ideals we may thus transform the world into a mechanism: out of our freedom we desire to conceive ourselves as necessary products.
The joy of removing some obstacles from the way of the patients is too much overshadowed by the deep pity and sympathy with their suffering and craving during the whole period of successive treatments.
On a higher level are objections which come from serious quarters and which are not without sympathy with true science.
The easily suggestible person cannot be protected by any interdict; he may catch suggestions everywhere, any advertisement in the newspaper and any display in the shop window may overrun his own intentions.
And if the absurdity of such a proposal is recognized it seems to many justified to demand such an intrusion at least in the case of the born criminal, even if the occasional criminal cannot be reached.
Still more complex is the criminological problem.
Social aid and charity work ought to be filled with religious spirit, but to perform it is not itself religion.
In proportion as you deprive him of the power of self control, you deprive him of that upon which his individual responsibility and moral status depend.
But in about four days I got used to the loss of so much morphine and stayed on this amount for a week, seeing the professor every other day for hypnotic treatment and then returning to my room where I spent twenty two hours of the twenty four on the bed, but did not sleep more than two or three hours a day.
Harmonious development without one sidedness, and yet with full justice to the individual talents and equipments, should be secured.
We do not eliminate the moral will but we remove some unfair obstacles from its path.
We know that hypnotism is not based on any special power of the hypnotizer; there is no magnetic fluid in the sense of the old mesmerism.
All gambling from the child's play to the stock exchange is ruinous for the psychophysical equilibrium.
The artificial over suggestions which are needed to overcome the pathological disturbances of mental equilibrium may be left for the cases of illness.
Here is the place where imagination in play and later in art come in.
Science has the right to make hypnotic experiments, or experiments with abnormal mental states, only under the one condition that a physician has hypnotized the subject in the interests of his health and that the patient has agreed beforehand to allow in the presence of witnesses certain psychological studies.
We spoke of the danger which the mental cures carry with them when they are based on any particular creed, and especially when they are tied up with a semi religious arbitrary metaphysics.
Fears in that direction have been uttered repeatedly, but from very different standpoints.
Furthermore the associative apparatus of the brain may work especially slowly; it may thus bring it about that the counteracting ideas do not arise in time.
That holds true even for very slight abnormalities which seem still within the limits where the own energies can bring about the cure.
The nourishment of the child, the care for the child's sense organs, the recesses and the rest from fatigue, and especially the undisturbed sleep are essential conditions.
To counteract these slighter variations, these abnormalities which have not yet reached the degree of disease, will demand the same principles of treatment, only in a weaker form.
The imagination of the hypnotized person is the only hypnotizing agency. Thus no one can be hypnotized without his knowledge or against his will. The story of telepathic mysteries which is often brought before the public is probably always the outcome of a diseased brain.
Much more justified than such ethical objections are the fears which move entirely in the causal sphere.
But if the impulse has irresistible character in such a way that the good will is powerless, we are again in the field of disease and the point of view of the physician has to be substituted for that of the criminologist.
No one can insist too earnestly that life is worth living only if it serves moral duties and moral freedom and is not determined by pleasures and absence of pain only.
He had been for years a slave to his passion.
There is no doubt the arbitrary suppression of the sexual instinct must be acknowledged as the source of nervous injury while indulgence may lead to disease and misery.
That is the glory of life that the suggestive power may belong to moral values instead of mere pleasures, but it is not the aim of life to remain untouched by suggestion.
The child needs sleep and fresh air and healthful food more than anything else, if his mind is active.
Any absurd superstition can become accredited because its curative value may be equal to a truly valuable suggestion.
Literature and the libraries, the newspapers and the magazines play there a foremost role, and again the mental health of the community has to pay the penalty if its newspapers work against general culture.
It must be acknowledged that a method which has such powerful influence over the mind that it can secure ideas and emotions and impulses which the own will of the patient cannot produce, ought to be allowed only to those who are prepared for its skillful use.
I tried whiskey, but it gave relief only for about half an hour and then the desire was worse than ever."
The suppressed ideas had to be brought to consciousness again and then to be discharged through vivid expression. Society ought to learn from it that few factors are more disturbing for the mental balance than feelings and emotions which do not come to a normal expression.
The desire for the drug was something terrible.
In short, there may be a large number of factors, sometimes even in combination, each one of which increases the chances that the individual may come in danger in the midst of developed society.
To make a man fight where despair is inevitable, and where the enemy is necessarily stronger than his own powers, can certainly not be the moral demand.
Such critics are fully under the influence of the startling results which are reached; they do not take the trouble to examine the long and difficult way which has had to be traversed with patience and energy.
Yet again the liability of the brain to become antisocial would not have been removed, and thus not much would be secured unless such a person after the treatment could be kept under favorable conditions.
In truth it was the result of four months of the most noble and courageous suffering and struggling.
Above all, from early childhood the self control has to be strengthened, the child has to learn from the beginning to know the limits to the gratification of his desires and to abstain from reckless over indulgence.
What he needs is training in firmness.
An equilibrium is secured only if at the same time full emphasis is given to the learning and training in all which is the common ground of our social existence.
But this censure too is entirely mistaken, not because it urges the purposive views against the causal but because it is in error as to the facts.
Few factors are more influential in all these directions than the administration of law.
In recent times this opposition has repeatedly found eloquent expression.
Sound sober lawmaking and fair judgment in court secure to the community a feeling of safety which gives stability to emotions and feelings.
The fact that selfish and thus antisocial desires awake in the mind is not abnormal at all; only if they are not normally inhibited, the disturbance sets in.
Every society which allows successes to superficiality diminishes its chances for mental health.
A good conscience, a congenial home, and a serious purpose are after all the safest conditions for a healthy mind, and the community works in preventive psychotherapy wherever it facilitates the securing of these three factors.
Society has further to take care that those spheres of life which stand less under systematic principles, such as the home life of the child and the social life of the man, his family life and his public life, are steadily under the pressure of influences which urge in the same direction.
Both educators and criminologists have indeed often raised such questions, and social reformers have not seldom seen there wide perspectives for social movements in future times.
Destructive emotions like terror ought to be kept away and not needlessly brought near by uncanny stories and mystic superstitions.
Nobody ought to be brought into a hypnotic or otherwise abnormal state of mind if it is not suggested by the interests of the subject himself.
Those who set forth this argument are entirely willing to acknowledge the profound effect which suggestive therapeutics may create.
All hypnotizing therefore ought to be interdicted by the state.
No one can measure the injury done to the psychophysical balance of the weaker brains, for instance, by the sensational court gossip and reports of murder trials in the newspapers for the masses. But while the influence of suggestion is on the whole familiar to public opinion, the community is much less aware of another factor which we found important in the hands of the psychotherapist.
If again and again I hesitate to undertake new cases, it is just because I have to see during the treatment too much of this daily and hourly striving against overpowering impulses.
His achievement has therefore no moral value, and if he is really cured of his drunkenness or of his perverse habits, of his misuse of cocaine or of his criminal tendencies, he has lost the right to be counted a moral agent.
No one ought to take such arguments lightly.
The variations which produce this criminal effect may lie in most different directions.
It is claimed that suggestive power, especially in the form of hypnotization, may be secretly misused to make anyone without his knowledge and against his will a passive instrument of the hypnotist's intent.
Still more that is true of the healing of the sick. Whether or not such expansion of church activity in different directions saps the vital strength of religion itself is indeed a problem for the whole community.
If there is moral criticism against suggestive therapy, it is the duty of the community to consider it.
Its intemperate use or its use by young people and by pathological persons is one of the gravest dangers. Whether intemperance ought to be fought by prohibition or rather by an education to temperance is a difficult question in which the enthusiastic women and ministers, backed by the well justified fears of psychiatrists, will hardly be on the same side as the sober judgment of scientists, unprejudiced physicians, and historians.
Morality postulates that everyone find conditions in which he can be victorious if he puts his strongest efforts to the task.
When I first went to see the professor in the Harvard Psychological Laboratory, I was using between thirty two and thirty eight grains of morphine daily.
If such cases should come early to suggestive treatment which really would close the channels of the antisocial autosuggestion, much harm might be averted.
The ideal of such mental hygiene is the complete equilibrium of all mental energies together with their fullest possible development.
The intellectual life of the community would have to suffer greatly if the way to be freed from bodily suffering had to be the belief in the metaphysical doctrines of mrs Eddy's "Science and Health." From a cultural viewpoint, too, suggestive therapeutics must stand the higher, the more sharply it is separated from special philosophical or religious doctrines.
"Bless your heart, peter, no," replied Scrapper with a chuckle.
Ugh!
"What I want to know is, why should Cresty the Flycatcher ask me to please let him know if I found any cast off suits of the Snake family?
"I-"
Before peter could say another word Cresty had flown away.
"Did you say your fighting cousin?" he asked in a hesitating way.
He knew that he couldn't have seen it had it been only one fourth that distance away.
I've got to go house hunting, but you'll find me there or hereabouts, if it happens that you find one of those cast off Snake suits."
A few days after Chebec and his wife started building their nest in the Old Orchard peter dropped around as usual for a very early call.
He took them quite modestly, assuring them that he had done nothing, nothing at all, but that he didn't intend to have any of the Hawk family around the Old Orchard while he lived there.
"A cast off suit of clothes from any member of the Snake family," replied Cresty somewhat impatiently.
"Didn't I tell you the other day, peter Rabbit, that I'm not to be disturbed?
"Look up over your head," cried the voice, rather a harsh voice.
"I just want to ask one little favor of you."
"My fighting cousin and my handsomest cousin arrived together yesterday, and now our family is very well represented in the Old Orchard," said Chebec proudly.
Snake skins!" shrieked Jenny Wren.
Of course, peter couldn't be left out of anything like that, and he scampered for the scene of trouble as fast as his legs could take him.
Finally curiosity got the best of him, and back he scampered, lipperty lipperty lip, to the foot of the tree in which Jenny Wren had her home.
"peter!
It was Cresty the Great Crested Flycatcher.
He was a wee bit bigger than Scrapper the Kingbird, yet not quite so big as Welcome Robin, and more slender.
"You don't understand," cried peter hurriedly.
"There wouldn't be any honey if I did.
Slowly peter reached over his back with his long left hind foot and thoughtfully scratched his long right ear.
Blacky saw him coming and was wise enough to suddenly appear to have no interest whatever in the Old Orchard, turning away toward the Green Meadows instead.
peter hesitated, looking first towards the dear Old Briar patch and then towards Jenny Wren's house.
Didn't I, peter Rabbit?
He certainly was the handsomest as well as the largest of the Flycatcher family.
"Snake skins," replied peter.
They do no work at all.
This time Jenny popped her head out, and her little eyes fairly snapped.
The rest of us always feel safe when he is about."
"Jenny!" called peter.
"He is Scrapper the Kingbird, as of course you know.
For a minute peter couldn't think what was the trouble with Redtail, and then he saw.
He found Chebec very busy hunting for materials for that nest, because, as he explained to peter, mrs Chebec is very particular indeed about what her nest is made of.
"Do you live on bees altogether?" asked peter.
But he had time to tell peter a bit of news.
He didn't like to admit that he couldn't recall those two cousins of Chebec's.
His throat and breast were gray, shading into bright yellow underneath.
"Now don't forget, peter.
While peter sat staring up at him Scrapper suddenly darted out into the air, and his bill snapped in quite the same way Chebec's did when he caught a fly.
It was a bee.
"Jenny Wren!
But none, not even Bully the English Sparrow, was brave enough to join him in attacking big Redtail.
But this seemed to make no difference to Scrapper, for that is who it was.
Jenny Wren!" No one answered him. He could hear mr Wren singing in another tree, but he couldn't see him. "Jenny!
peter stopped abruptly, sat up very straight, looked this way, looked that way and looked the other way, every way but the right way.
Didn't I? Didn't I?"
"Are you going to build in the Old Orchard this year?" asked peter.
peter couldn't help but admire Scrapper for his courage.
It is because of his fearlessness that he is called Kingbird.
peter didn't wait for Scrapper to return.
Jenny Wren looked as if she didn't know whether to feel flattered or provoked.
"Of course I am," declared Scrapper.
A pointed cap was all that was needed to make him quite distinguished looking.
You certainly did, and I'm sorry to disturb you," replied peter meekly.
When he had succeeded in driving Redtail far enough from the Old Orchard to suit him, Scrapper flew back and perched on a dead branch of one of the trees, where he received the congratulations of all his feathered neighbors.
"What is it?" asked peter, who is always glad to do any one a favor.
Oh, peter Rabbit!" called the voice.
Just as he was leaving the far corner of the Old Orchard some one called him.
peter knew better than to waste any effort trying to see that fly.
He flew away before I could ask him why he wants them, and so I came to you, because I know you know everything, especially everything concerning your neighbors."
He just couldn't understand about those cast off suits of the Snake family, and he felt sure that Jenny Wren could tell him.
He was just a little smaller than Welcome Robin, and in comparison with him Redtail was a perfect giant.
Right where the Laughing Brook entered the Smiling Pool there was a little pebbly beach.
mrs Teeter stood up and stepped aside.
He showed it as he stared down at mrs Teeter just in front of him.
"I really didn't mean to.
"Peet weet!
"I do," said he.
Just then mrs Teeter came hurrying up and squatted down in the sand right in front of peter.
I think there is one right under my feet now; watch me get him." Longbill bored into the ground until his head was almost against it.
"I didn't mean to scare him," apologized peter.
From right under his very nose something shot up into the air with a whistling sound.
You'll excuse me while I go on eating, I hope.
Then he pulled it out and peter caught a glimpse of the tail end of a worm disappearing down Longbill's throat.
The only time they are in danger is when somebody comes along, as you did, and is likely to step on them without seeing them.
peter nodded.
Longbill took two or three steps in rather a stately fashion.
I'm ever so glad to have seen you, and I'm coming over to call again the first chance I get."
Before peter could say another word Teeter came running towards him, and it was plain to see that Teeter was very anxious about something.
I am glad it is no one but you, peter, for I was having a splendid meal here, and I should have hated to leave it.
I'll just run over and pay my respects to Grandfather Frog, and to Redwing the Blackbird.
There wasn't even a bug or a worm crawling on the ground.
But that doesn't happen often."
You gave me a dreadful start."
The ground was soft in places, quite muddy.
"I can feel them when I reach them, and then I just open the top of my bill and grab them.
Suddenly Longbill plunged his bill into the ground.
Bushes and young trees grow along the banks of the Laughing Brook at this point.
But the worms Welcome Robin got were always close to the surface, while these worms were so deep in the earth that peter couldn't understand how it was possible for any one to know that they were there.
peter scratched a long ear with a long hind foot, trying to think of some place to go.
"And was there a worm in every one?" asked peter, his eyes very wide with interest.
"Thank goodness!" exclaimed Teeter, still bobbing and bowing.
"Don't move, peter Rabbit!
Longbill nodded.
peter turned quickly.
He scared me for a second."
But his bill was long enough to make up.
Then peter saw right in a little hollow in the sand, with just a few bits of grass for a lining, four white eggs with big dark blotches on them.
His eyes were very big and they were set so far back that peter wondered if it wasn't easier for him to look behind him than in front of him.
Do you think he was really very much scared?"
peter greeted him joyously.
mrs Teeter slipped back on the eggs and settled herself comfortably.
"My cousin, Jack Snipe, can," replied Longbill promptly.
"If you had taken another step, peter Rabbit, you would have stepped right on our eggs.
"I don't see any nest or eggs or anything," said he rather testily.
It was his head that made him look queer.
"That's where I'll go!" exclaimed peter.
peter doesn't mind getting his feet damp, so he hopped along carelessly.
"It's wonderful," sighed peter.
When he pulled his bill out, sure enough, there was a worm.
Off he started, lipperty lipperty lip, for the Smiling Pool.
When peter thinks of something to do he wastes no time.
See here!" Longbill suddenly thrust his bill straight out in front of him and to Peter's astonishment he lifted the end of the upper half without opening the rest of his bill at all.
peter was puzzled.
We can talk between bites."
There was mrs Woodcock peeping at him from behind a tussock of grass.
It was Teeter the Spotted Sandpiper, an old friend of Peter's.
Running along the very edge of the water was a slim, trim little bird with fairly long legs, a long slender bill, brownish gray back with black spots and markings, and a white waistcoat neatly spotted with black.
Then peter chuckled.
"Now you speak of it, there is a strong family resemblance, although I hadn't thought of him as a relative of yours before.
But peter couldn't see a thing that looked good to eat.
He kept close to the edge of the Green Forest until he reached the place where the Laughing Brook comes out of the Green Forest on its way to the Smiling Pool in the Green Meadows.
"Of course," explained Longbill, "it is only in soft ground that I can do this.
It startled peter so that he stopped short with his eyes popping out of his head.
"You scared him.
"mrs Woodcock made some of them."
It suddenly struck peter that if he hadn't seen her do it, he wouldn't have known she was there.
He plunged it in for the whole length.
Peet weet!" cried Teeter, turning towards peter and bobbing and bowing as only Teeter can.
"Not too scared to come back, anyway," said Longbill himself, dropping down just in front of peter.
Redwing was one of the first birds to arrive, and I've neglected him shamefully."
That is why I have to fly away south as soon as the ground freezes at all."
His back was a mixture of gray, brown, black and buff, while his breast and under parts were a beautiful reddish buff.
"Why not?" demanded peter, for he could see no danger and could think of no reason why he shouldn't move.
I saw you coming, but Longbill didn't."
"That's the way I get them," said he.
Don't move!" he cried.
"I don't suppose any one else can find hidden worms that way."
peter hastily backed away a few steps.
mrs Teeter chuckled softly.
He had just a glimpse of a brown form disappearing over the tops of some tall bushes.
So peter said good by and kept on down the Laughing Brook to the Smiling Pool.
Every few steps he would stop to pick up something, then stand for a second bobbing up and down in the funniest way, as if his body was so nicely balanced on his legs that it teetered back and forth like a seesaw.
"By the way, where does Cresty build?" asked peter.
Look!
The upper half of his bill was black, but the lower half was light.
Almost at once he began to call his name in a rather sad, plaintive tone, "Pee wee! Pee wee!
I didn't expect to find him yet.
Perhaps they think it will scare robbers away.
peter grinned and looked foolish.
Hardly had he reached it when he heard a plaintive voice crying, "Pee wee!
"Come as often as you like," replied Pewee.
Back in the Old Briar patch peter thought over all he had learned about the Flycatcher family, and as he recalled how they were forever catching all sorts of flying insects it suddenly struck him that they must be very useful little people in helping Old Mother Nature take care of her trees and other growing things which insects so dearly love to destroy.
Jenny couldn't keep her tongue still if she wanted to.
peter looked quite as surprised as he felt.
"Have you got two homes?" asked peter.
I like to see that.
That's good.
"He usually is one of the last of the Flycatcher family to arrive.
He was a little bigger than his cousin, Chebec, but looked very much like him.
But most of all peter thought about that queer request of Cresty's, and a dozen times that day he found himself peeping under old logs in the hope of finding a cast off coat of mr Black Snake.
"Where are your eyes, peter?
It ended just where it had started, on a dead twig of a tree in a shady, rather lonely part of the Green Forest.
Jenny Wren's eyes twinkled, and she laughed softly.
"Did you find any old clothes of the Snake family?" she demanded.
"What do you suppose I want of two homes?
He's building that nest to take up his time and keep out of mischief.
Ugh!"
"Why they want it, goodness knows!
"They certainly do, more's the pity!" snapped Jenny.
Again Jenny Wren nodded.
It is so quiet and restful that I love it.
"mr Wren just has to be busy about something, bless his heart," said she.
Jenny paused and jerked her tail impatiently.
mrs Pewee and I are very retiring.
It was such a funny thing for Cresty to ask for that Peter's curiosity would allow him no peace, and the next morning he was up in the Old Orchard before jolly mr Sun had kicked his bedclothes off.
On his way he couldn't resist the temptation to run over to the Green Forest, which was just beyond the Old Orchard.
Yellow Wing the flicker, who really is a Woodpecker, often uses an old house, but quite often makes a new one.
peter looked surprised.
But he wasn't sad, as peter well knew.
I wonder what has brought him up so early."
One is all I can take care of."
"If you please," peter inquired politely, "why do folks call you Wood Pewee?"
"Does Cresty make the hole?" he asked.
"And Skimmer the Tree Swallow," added Jenny.
Pewee nodded.
But they do, and an old house of Yellow Wing the Flicker suits either of them.
I've talked quite enough for one morning."
Pee wee!"
But the Woodpeckers seem to like new houses best, which, as I said before, is a very good thing for the rest of us."
Pee wee!" peter chuckled happily.
Pewee chuckled happily.
CHAPTER eight.
Did you ever see a Flycatcher with a bill that looked as if it could cut wood?" She didn't wait for a reply, but rattled on.
Then there are Killy the Sparrow Hawk and Spooky the Screech Owl."
It was his way of expressing how happy he felt.
CUPID AND PSYCHE
Cupid prepared to obey the commands of his mother.
Go, then, and voluntarily surrender yourself to your lady and sovereign, and try by modesty and submission to win her forgiveness, and perhaps her favor will restore you the husband you have lost."
Next morning Venus ordered Psyche to be called and said to her, "Behold yonder grove which stretches along the margin of the water.
Psyche replied that he was a beautiful youth, who generally spent the daytime in hunting upon the mountains.
In fact Venus found her altars deserted, while men turned their devotion to this young virgin.
But a voice from the tower said to her, "Why, poor unlucky girl, dost thou design to put an end to thy days in so dreadful a manner?
But Cupid, being now recovered from his wound, and not able longer to bear the absence of his beloved Psyche, slipping through the smallest crack of the window of his chamber which happened to be left open, flew to the spot where Psyche lay, and gathering up the sleep from her body closed it again in the box, and waked Psyche with a light touch of one of his arrows.
This reasoning somewhat quieted Psyche for a time, and while the novelty lasted she felt quite happy.
Supper awaits you in the adjoining alcove when it pleases you to take your seat there."
Psyche, henceforth frowned upon by Venus, derived no benefit from all her charms.
"Most undutiful and faithless of servants," said she, "do you at last remember that you really have a mistress?
They embraced her and she returned their caresses.
Go, fetch me a sample of that precious wool gathered from every one of their fleeces."
Then they proceeded to fill her bosom with dark suspicions.
She had no sooner entered than she saw heaps of corn, some in loose ears and some in sheaves, with mingled ears of barley. Scattered about, lay sickles and rakes, and all the instruments of harvest, without order, as if thrown carelessly out of the weary reapers' hands in the sultry hours of the day.
But she shall not so quietly usurp my honors.
Cupid filled two amber vases, one from each fountain, and suspending them from the top of his quiver, hastened to the chamber of Psyche, whom he found asleep.
The charms of the two elder were more than common, but the beauty of the youngest was so wonderful that the poverty of language is unable to express its due praise.
She points out Psyche to him and says, "My dear son, punish that contumacious beauty; give thy mother a revenge as sweet as her injuries are great; infuse into the bosom of that haughty girl a passion for some low, mean, unworthy being, so that she may reap a mortification as great as her present exultation and triumph."
The fame of her beauty was so great that strangers from neighboring countries came in crowds to enjoy the sight, and looked on her with amazement, paying her that homage which is due only to Venus herself.
Psyche, then, is the human soul, which is purified by sufferings and misfortunes, and is thus prepared for the enjoyment of true and pure happiness.
You are so ill favored and disagreeable that the only way you can merit your lover must be by dint of industry and diligence.
She had not yet seen her destined husband.
Every object she met filled her with pleasure and amazement.
The fable of Cupid and Psyche is usually considered allegorical. The Greek name for a butterfly is Psyche, and the same word means the soul.
But I have another task for you.
By degrees her mind became composed, and she laid herself down on the grassy bank to sleep.
"Again," said he, "hast thou almost perished by the same curiosity.
At the touch she awoke, and opened eyes upon Cupid (himself invisible), which so startled him that in his confusion he wounded himself with his own arrow.
The holy Ceres, whose temple it was, finding her so religiously employed, thus spoke to her: "O Psyche, truly worthy of our pity, though I cannot shield you from the frowns of Venus, yet I can teach you how best to allay her displeasure.
He shed a few drops from the bitter fountain over her lips, though the sight of her almost moved him to pity; then touched her side with the point of his arrow.
But go; return to your sisters, whose advice you seem to think preferable to mine.
While Psyche stood on the ridge of the mountain, panting with fear and with eyes full of tears, the gentle Zephyr raised her from the earth and bore her with an easy motion into a flowery dale.
Casting her eyes on a lofty mountain having on its brow a magnificent temple, she sighed and said to herself, "Perhaps my love, my lord, inhabits there," and directed her steps thither.
On the contrary he charged her to make no attempt to see him, for it was his pleasure, for the best of reasons, to keep concealed.
Drawn by admiration and wonder, she approached the building and ventured to enter.
So, calling Zephyr, she acquainted him with her husband's commands, and he, promptly obedient, soon brought them across the mountain down to their sister's valley.
The leader of the ant hill, followed by whole hosts of his six legged subjects, approached the heap, and with the utmost diligence, taking grain by grain, they separated the pile, sorting each kind to its parcel; and when it was all done, they vanished out of sight in a moment.
CHAPTER eleven
She entered it, and in the midst discovered a fountain, sending forth clear and crystal waters, and fast by, a magnificent palace whose august front impressed the spectator that it was not the work of mortal hands, but the happy retreat of some god.
Proceeding onward, she perceived that besides the apartments of state there were others filled with all manner of treasures, and beautiful and precious productions of nature and art.
The view of these celestial delights caused envy to enter their bosoms, at seeing their young sister possessed of such state and splendor, so much exceeding their own.
I submit.
Psyche resisted these persuasions as well as she could, but they did not fail to have their effect on her mind, and when her sisters were gone, their words and her own curiosity were too strong for her to resist.
She often begged him to stay and let her behold him, but he would not consent.
I will give her cause to repent of so unlawful a beauty."
If you saw me, perhaps you would fear me, perhaps adore me, but all I ask of you is to love me.
Psyche obediently went to the riverside, prepared to do her best to execute the command.
She repaired thither and told them the whole story of her misfortunes, at which, pretending to grieve, those spiteful creatures inwardly rejoiced.
But now perform exactly the task imposed on you by my mother, and I will take care of the rest."
There are two fountains in Venus's garden, one of sweet waters, the other of bitter.
Milton alludes to the story of Cupid and Psyche in the conclusion of his "Comus":
The story of Cupid and Psyche first appears in the works of Apuleius, a writer of the second century of our era.
This unseemly confusion the pious Psyche put an end to, by separating and sorting everything to its proper place and kind, believing that she ought to neglect none of the gods, but endeavor by her piety to engage them all in her behalf.
Psyche meanwhile wandered day and night, without food or repose, in search of her husband.
Venus at the approach of twilight returned from the banquet of the gods, breathing odors and crowned with roses.
We whose voices you hear are your servants and shall obey all your commands with our utmost care and diligence. Retire, therefore, to your chamber and repose on your bed of down, and when you see fit repair to the bath.
In vain then did that royal shepherd, whose judgment was approved by Jove himself, give me the palm of beauty over my illustrious rivals, Pallas and Juno.
So she prepared her lamp and a sharp knife, and hid them out of sight of her husband.
Psyche, in vain endeavoring to follow him, fell from the window to the ground.
In works of art Psyche is represented as a maiden with the wings of a butterfly, along with Cupid, in the different situations described in the allegory.
Provide yourself with a lamp and a sharp knife; put them in concealment that your husband may not discover them, and when he is sound asleep, slip out of bed, bring forth your lamp, and see for yourself whether what they say is true or not. If it is, hesitate not to cut off the monster's head, and thereby recover your liberty."
It is this that Keats alludes to in his "Ode to Psyche":
The sisters, not satisfied with this reply, soon made her confess that she had never seen him.
A certain king and queen had three daughters.
Her two elder sisters of moderate charms had now long been married to two royal princes; but Psyche, in her lonely apartment, deplored her solitude, sick of that beauty which, while it procured abundance of flattery, had failed to awaken love.
Heedless of his wound, his whole thought now was to repair the mischief he had done, and he poured the balmy drops of joy over all her silken ringlets.
"Theme" meant both the corps and the district which it defended, and the corps commander was also the provincial governor.
The Persian replied with the threat that he would put the Prophet in chains when he had leisure.
The romans drove the enemy back to the very gates of their camp, but a last charge, headed by the fierce warrior Khaled, broke their firm array when a victory seemed almost assured.
He could do nothing; Emesa and Heliopolis were sacked before his eyes, and after an inglorious campaign he hurried to Jerusalem, took the "True Cross" from its sanctuary, where he had replaced it in triumph five years before, and retired to Constantinople.
Most of its population were massacred.
Constantine the fourth., known as Pogonatus, "the Bearded," reigned for seventeen years, of which more than half were spent in one long struggle with the Saracens.
The chief men were caught and sent to the capital, where Justinian had them bound to spits and roasted.
The troops of Leontius betrayed the gates of the capital to the followers of the rebel admiral, and Apsimarus seized Constantinople.
While the emperor's financial expedients were making him hated by the moneyed classes, he was rendering himself no less unpopular in the army.
The people and army were out of hand, the ephemeral emperor could count on no loyalty, and any shock was sufficient to upset his precarious throne.
More merciful than any of his ephemeral predecessors, Theodosius the third. dismissed Anastasius unharmed, after compelling him to take holy orders.
As he parted from his friends he exclaimed that his days were numbered, and that he should be expecting the order for his execution to arrive at any moment.
To replace Justinian by Philippicus was only to substitute King Log for King Stork.
But the Emperor's stern soul was not bent by the tempest.
The boat weathered the storm, and Justinian survived to carry out his cruel oath.
One of his companions cried to Justinian to make his peace with God, and pardon his enemies ere he died.
The unfortunate emperor, who had not coveted the throne he occupied, nor much desired to retain it, allowed his army to risk one engagement with the troops of Leo.
A mob joined him, he seized the Cathedral of saint Sophia, and then marched on the palace.
He attacked them suddenly, inflicted several defeats on their king, and took no less than thirty thousand prisoners, whom he sent over to Asia, and forced to enlist in the army of Armenia.
But they were soon to find out that they had erred in submitting to the exile, and should have resisted him at all hazards. Justinian came back in a relentless mood, bent on nothing but revenging his mutilated nose and his ten years of exile.
Ere he had reached his twenty first year Justinian had plunged into war with the Bulgarians.
After his ill success in the Saracen war, he began to execute or imprison his officers, and to decimate his beaten troops: to be employed by him in high command was almost as dangerous as it was to be appointed a general in chief during the dictatorship of Robespierre.
Soldiers were picked out by the dozen and beheaded.
The emperor learnt of the plot through his wife, and saved himself by the bold expedient of going at once to one of the two Khazar chiefs and asking for a secret interview.
The two subsequent campaigns were equally unsuccessful, and the troops of the Caliph harried Cappadocia far and wide.
After this strange exhibition the two ex emperors were beheaded.
In less than two years he was upset by a conspiracy which placed on the throne Artemius Anastasius, his own chief secretary.
After inducing the Saracens, more by craft than force, to raise the siege of Amorium, Leo disowned his allegiance to the incapable Theodosius and marched toward the Bosphorus.
Accordingly the nose of Leontius was slit, and he was placed in confinement in a monastery.
He held the throne barely three years, amid constant revolts at home and defeats abroad.
Justinian's wars depleted his treasury; yet he persisted in plunging into expensive schemes of building at the same time, and was driven to collect money by the most reckless extortion.
They enlisted in their scheme Tiberius Apsimarus, who commanded the imperial fleet in the Aegean, and proclaimed him emperor when he joined them with his galleys.
Stephanus thrashed and stoned every one who fell into his hands; he is reported to have actually administered a whipping to the empress dowager during the absence of her son, and Justinian did not punish him when he returned.
The six years which followed were purely anarchical.
In a few years he had made himself so much detested that it might be said that he had been comparatively popular in the days of his first reign.
With this prince the exile so ingratiated himself that he received in marriage his sister, who was baptized and christened Theodora.
Both were violent and cruel: Theodotus is said to have hung recalcitrant tax payers up by ropes above smoky fires till they were nearly stifled.
"The affairs both of the realm and the city were neglected and decaying, civil education was disappearing, and military discipline dissolved." The Bulgarian and Saracen commenced once more to ravage the frontier provinces, and every year their ravages penetrated further inland.
It required a hero to restore the machinery of government and evolve order out of chaos.
Then he set to work to hunt out meaner victims: many prominent citizens of Constantinople were sown up in sacks and drowned in the Bosphorus.
His second venture in the field was disastrous: his unwilling recruits from Bulgaria deserted to the enemy, when he met the Saracens at Sebastopolis in Cilicia, and the Roman army was routed with great slaughter.
Their execution began a reign of terror, for Justinian had his oath to keep, and was set on wreaking vengeance on every one who had been concerned in his deposition.
Justinian refused to receive them, and declared war.
The new emperor was a mere man of pleasure, and spent his time in personal enjoyment, letting affairs of state slide on as best they might.
This gave him time to escape, and he fled in a fishing boat out into the Euxine with a few friends and servants who had followed him into exile. While they were out at sea a storm arose, and the boat began to fill.
THE FIRST ANARCHY.
The Empress Irene was clever, domineering, and popular.
At this time Pope Stephen, when attacked by the same enemy, sent for aid to Pipin the Frank, instead of calling on the Emperor, and for the future the papacy was for all practical purposes dependent on the Franks and not on the empire.
Irene had actually striven to oppose him by armed force, but he pardoned her, and after secluding her for a short time, restored her to her former dignity.
The Iconoclastic controversy had prepared the way for it, while the fact that a woman sat on the imperial throne served as a good excuse for the Pope's action.
We are told that he compelled many of their inmates to marry by force of threats; others were exiled to Cyprus by the hundred; not a few were flogged and imprisoned, and a certain number of prominent men were put to death.
fifteen.
Where Leo had chastised the adherents of superstition with whips Constantine chastised them with scorpions.
Constantine was neither precocious nor unfilial, but in his twenty second year he rebelled against his mother's dictation, and took his place at the helm of the state.
Dangerous revolts broke out in Greece and Italy, and were not put down without much fighting.
But it was not till eight hundred that the final breach took place.
If so, what did he feel?
Sir, today is june first eighteen sixty eight, or the thirteenth day in the Month of Pasture.
What ship was this?
To be more accurate, I should have said to the northeast.
Some minutes later it stopped at a depth of eight hundred thirty three meters and came to rest on the seafloor.
Would the Nautilus dare to tackle the English Channel?
Now then, on may twenty fifth while submerged to a depth of three thousand eight hundred thirty six meters, the Nautilus lay in precisely the locality where this second cable suffered the rupture that ruined the undertaking. It happened six hundred thirty eight miles from the coast of Ireland.
On september fifth seventeen eighty one, under the Count de Grasse, it took part in the Battle of Chesapeake Bay.
"If all their eggs hatched, just four codfish could feed England, America, and Norway."
"five hundred thousand."
CHAPTER twenty
The daring Cyrus Field, who had risked his whole fortune to promote this undertaking, called for a new bond issue.
I was on the platform just then.
As we swung around the Emerald Isle, I spotted Cape Clear for an instant, plus the lighthouse on Fastnet Rock that guides all those thousands of ships setting out from Glasgow or Liverpool.
"What's that?"
While the Nautilus was clearing a path through their tight ranks, Conseil couldn't refrain from making this comment:
"Count what?"
Through the mists on the twenty seventh, it sighted the port of Heart's Content.
IN THE AFTERMATH of this storm, we were thrown back to the east. Away went any hope of
The long snake was covered with seashell rubble and bristling with foraminifera; a crust of caked gravel protected it from any mollusks that might bore into it.
Would Captain Nemo head up north and beach us on the British Isles? no Much to my surprise, he went back down south and returned to European seas.
The undertaking had ended happily, and in its first dispatch, young America addressed old Europe with these wise words so rarely understood: "Glory to God in the highest, and peace on earth to men of good will."
If it was going to enter the English Channel, it clearly needed to head east.
These banks are the result of marine sedimentation, an extensive accumulation of organic waste brought either from the equator by the Gulf Stream's current, or from the North Pole by the countercurrent of cold water that skirts the American coast. Here, too, erratically drifting chunks collect from the ice breakup. Here a huge boneyard forms from fish, mollusks, and zoophytes dying over it by the billions.
escaping to the landing places of New York or the saint Lawrence. In despair, poor Ned went into seclusion like Captain Nemo.
After determining our position, the captain pronounced only these words:
He went down the hatch.
Ned Land (who promptly reappeared after we hugged shore) never stopped questioning me. What could I answer him?
But the Nautilus kept gravitating southward.
"But what crowds of them!
Eight miles to the east, a big steamship was visible on the horizon line. No flag was flapping from the gaff of its fore and aft sail, and I couldn't tell its nationality.
The next day, june first, the Nautilus kept to the same tack. It was obviously trying to locate some precise spot in the ocean. Just as on the day before, Captain Nemo came to take the altitude of the sun
Instead of continuing north, the Nautilus took an easterly heading, as if to go along this plateau on which the telegraph cable rests, where multiple soundings have given the contours of the terrain with the utmost accuracy.
I returned to the lounge.
The ceiling lights in the lounge then went out, the panels opened, and through the windows I saw, for a half mile radius, the sea brightly lit by the beacon's rays.
On july fourth seventeen seventy nine, as a member of the squadron under Admiral d'Estaing, it assisted in the capture of the island of Grenada.
Was it our proximity to these European shores?
What swarms!"
"Why, I thought cod were flat, like dab or sole!"
Captain Nemo remained invisible. After giving the Canadian a glimpse of American shores, was he about to show me the coast of France?
But I'll make one comment."
Another cable was put down under better conditions.
The sea was smooth, the skies clear.
Then we returned to the locality where the eighteen sixty three accident had taken place.
Remorse or regret? For a good while these thoughts occupied my mind, and I had a hunch that fate would soon give away the captain's secrets.
Besides, on this well chosen plateau, the cable never lies at depths that could cause a break.
I looked to port and saw nothing but the immenseness of these tranquil waters.
"Mercy, look at these cod!" he said.
It seemed to be searching for a locality that it had some trouble finding. At noon Captain Nemo himself came to take our bearings. He didn't address a word to me.
An important question then popped into my head.
All day long on may thirty first, the Nautilus swept around the sea in a series of circles that had me deeply puzzled.
They're eaten in prodigious quantities, and without the astonishing fertility of these fish, the seas would soon be depopulated of them.
By july twenty third the Great Eastern was lying no farther than eight hundred kilometers from Newfoundland when it received telegraphed news from Ireland of an armistice signed between Prussia and Austria after the Battle of Sadova.
As I said, the Nautilus veered to the east.
It sold out immediately.
But to the south there is a deep, suddenly occurring depression, a three thousand-meter pit.
"I'll go all out," Conseil replied.
The operation proceeded apace.
I didn't expect to find this electric cable in mint condition, as it looked on leaving its place of manufacture.
"Bah!
But it would be less work to believe me. Besides, Frenchmen, Englishmen, Americans, Danes, and Norwegians catch these cod by the thousands.
Because Newfoundland is simply an underwater peak, you could call these cod mountain fish.
"Blending the nature of the star With that of summer skies;"
Many ladies fainted; among them Miss Liebenheim-and she would have fallen to the ground but for Maximilian, who sprang forward and caught her in his arms.
I was at the time, and still am, a professor in that city and university which had the melancholy distinction of being its theater.
In that respect, therefore, I had an advantage, being upon the spot through the whole course of the affair, for giving a faithful narrative; as I had still more eminently, from the sort of central station which I occupied, with respect to all the movements of the case.
I did not witness the first meeting of this mysterious Maximilian and this magnificent Margaret, and do not know whether Margaret manifested that trepidation and embarrassment which distressed so many of her youthful co rivals; but, if she did, it must have fled before the first glance of the young man's eye, which would interpret, past all misunderstanding, the homage of his soul and the surrender of his heart.
I knew familiarly all the parties who were concerned in it, either as sufferers or as agents.
The effect was awkward and embarrassing to all parties.
No tragedy, indeed, among all the sad ones by which the charities of the human heart or of the fireside have ever been outraged, can better merit a separate chapter in the private history of German manners or social life than this unparalleled case.
The accomplished guardsman outshone himself in brilliancy; even his melancholy relaxed.
In that short interval other events had occurred no less terrific and mysterious.
Our host was in joyous spirits; proud to survey the splendid company he had gathered under his roof; happy to witness their happiness; elated in their elation.
Yet this was left untouched, though suspended in a little oratory that had been magnificently adorned by the elder of the maiden sisters.
The Russian secretary had latterly corresponded with me from a little German town, not more than ninety miles distant; and, as he had special couriers at his service, the negotiations advanced so rapidly that all was closed before the end of September.
It followed, from the spirit in which these half yearly dances originated, that, being given on the part of the city, every stranger of rank was marked out as a privileged guest, and the hospitality of the community would have been equally affronted by failing to offer or by failing to accept the invitation.
All went happily.
She was long of returning to herself; and, during the agony of his suspense, he stooped and kissed her pallid lips.
But the effect of these various advantages, enforced and recommended as they were by a personal beauty so rare, was somewhat too potent for the comfort and self possession of ordinary people; and really exceeded in a painful degree the standard of pretensions under which such people could feel themselves at their ease.
Like a bird under the fascination of a rattlesnake, he would not summon up the energies of his nature to make an effort at flying away. "Begone, while it is time!" said others, as well as myself; for more than I saw enough to fear some fearful catastrophe.
Like some bird she seemed, with powers unexercised for soaring and flying, not understood even as yet, and that never until now had found an element of air capable of sustaining her wings, or tempting her to put forth her buoyant instincts.
Two months had now passed away since the arrival of mr Wyndham. He had been universally introduced to the superior society of the place; and, as I need hardly say, universally received with favor and distinction.
At first, and perhaps to the last, I pitied him exceedingly.
But, if this had been little anticipated by many, far less had I, for my part, anticipated the unhappy revolution which was wrought in the whole nature of Ferdinand von Harrelstein.
Imagination exhausted itself in vain guesses at the causes which could by possibility have made the poor Weishaupts objects of such hatred to any man.
From pity, from sympathy, from counsel, and from consolation, and from scorn-from each of these alike the poor stricken deer "recoiled into the wilderness;" he fled for days together into solitary parts of the forest; fled, as I still hoped and prayed, in good earnest and for a long farewell; but, alas!
Before the arrival of mr Wyndham he had shown himself generous, indeed magnanimous. But never was there so painful an overthrow of a noble nature as manifested itself in him.
Early he had felt that in her hands lay his destiny; that she it was who must be his good or his evil genius.
Ferdinand himself drew his attention to THIS; for he said: "Reverend father! do not you, with the purpose of removing me from temptation, be yourself the instrument for tempting me into a rebellion against the church.
The commonplace maxim is, that it is dangerous to raise expectations too high.
They were rather difficult to trace accurately; those parts of the traces which lay upon the black tessellae being less distinct in the outline than the others upon the white or colored.
"Lead us not into temptation!" said his confessor to him in my hearing (for, though Prussians, the Von Harrelsteins were Roman Catholics), "lead us not into temptation!--that is our daily prayer to God.
And upon the beautiful parquet, or inlaid floor which ran round the room, were still impressed the footsteps of the murderer.
Then, my son, being led into temptation, do not you persist in courting, nay, almost tempting temptation.
Greek is what he wants from you;--never ask about terms.
In six weeks or less from the date of this terrific event, the negro was set at liberty by a majority of voices among the magistrates.
And, on the other hand, no one can put in a better claim to be the historian than myself.
These, it was hoped, might furnish a clew to the discovery of one at least among the murderous band.
Their third meeting I DID see; and there all shadow of embarrassment had vanished, except, indeed, of that delicate embarrassment which clings to impassioned admiration.
True, their charity was narrow and exclusive, but to those of their own religious body it expanded munificently; and, being rich beyond their wants, or any means of employing wealth which their gloomy asceticism allowed, they had the power of doing a great deal of good among the indigent papists of the suburbs.
The guardsman pressed forward to claim Miss Liebenheim's hand for the next dance; a movement which she was quick to favor, by retreating behind one or two parties from a person who seemed coming toward her.
Had these various contrivances failed merely in some human and intelligible way, as by bringing the aid too tardily- still, in such cases, though the danger would no less have been evidently deepened, nobody would have felt any further mystery than what, from the very first, rested upon the persons and the motives of the murderers.
Anxious that his son should go through a regular course of mathematical instruction, now becoming annually more important in all the artillery services throughout Europe, and that he should receive a tincture of other liberal studies which he had painfully missed in his own military career, the baron chose to keep his son for the last seven years at our college, until he was now entering upon his twenty third year.
He, on the other hand, now first found the realization of his dreams, and for a mere possibility which he had long too deeply contemplated, fearing, however, that in his own case it might prove a chimera, or that he might never meet a woman answering the demands of his heart, he now found a corresponding reality that left nothing to seek.
Still he turned a deaf ear to the only practical counsel that had a chance for reaching his ears.
January was drawing to its close; the weather was growing more and more winterly; high winds, piercingly cold, were raving through our narrow streets; and still the spirit of social festivity bade defiance to the storms which sang through our ancient forests.
It will be easily imagined that such a story, already romantic enough in its first outline, would lose nothing in the telling.
Margaret, on reviving, was confounded at finding herself so situated amid a great crowd; and yet the prudes complained that there was a look of love exchanged between herself and Maximilian, that ought not to have escaped her in such a situation.
As to his accomplishments, they will speak for themselves; they are infinite, and applicable to every situation of life.
Even she herself knew, though not obliged to know, why she was seated in that neighborhood; and took her place, if with a rosy suffusion upon her cheeks, yet with fullness of happiness at her heart.
"Why callest thou me murderer, and not rather the wrath of God burning after the steps of the oppressor, and cleansing the earth when it is wet with blood?"
My composure was restored in a moment. I looked steadily at him.
And such was the rivalship which prevailed, that often one quarter of the year's income was spent upon these galas.
near to him sat Margaret Liebenheim-hanging upon his words-more lustrous and bewitching than ever I had beheld her.
Every eye was bent toward the doors-every eye strained forward to discover what was passing.
Upon the evening at which I am now arrived, the twenty second of January, eighteen sixteen, the whole city, in its wealthier classes, was assembled beneath the roof of a tradesman who had the heart of a prince.
Many people stepped forward and checked his arm, uplifted for a repetition of this outrage.
The very midnight of mysterious awe fell upon all minds.
Mere panic seemed to have mastered her; and she was leaning, unconscious and weeping, upon the shoulder of some gentleman, who was endeavoring to soothe her.
Nobody could now be unprepared; and yet the tragedies, henceforward, which passed before us, one by one, in sad, leisurely, or in terrific groups, seemed to argue a lethargy like that of apoplexy in the victims, one and all.
Nothing, I can take upon myself to assert, was left undone of all that human foresight could suggest, or human ingenuity could accomplish.
So stood matters among us.
Never was there so victorious a conquest interchanged between two youthful hearts- never before such a rapture of instantaneous sympathy.
Nor was any ridicule thus incurred; for the costliness of the entertainment was understood to be an expression of OFFICIAL pride, done in honor of the city, not as an effort of personal display.
He rushed forward, with eyes glaring like a tiger's, and leveled a blow at Maximilian.
In particular, there was a crucifix of gold, enriched with jewels so large and rare, that of itself it would have constituted a prize of great magnitude.
Do not you weave snares about my steps; snares there are already, and but too many." The old man sighed, and desisted.
But in any case where the merit is transcendent of its kind, it is always useful to rack the expectation up to the highest point.
But observe the melancholy result: the more certain did these arrangements strike people as remedies for the evil, so much the more effectually did they aid the terror, but, above all, the awe, the sense of mystery, when ten cases of total extermination, applied to separate households, had occurred, in every one of which these precautionary aids had failed to yield the slightest assistance.
We both bowed.
Unparalleled was the impression made upon our stagnant society; every tongue was busy in discussing the marvelous young Englishman from morning to night; every female fancy was busy in depicting the personal appearance of this gay apparition.
But there, every moment, less and less could be seen, for the gathering crowd more and more intercepted the view;--so much the more was the ear at leisure for the shrieks redoubled upon shrieks.
Two or three other letters followed; and at length it was arranged that mr Maximilian Wyndham should take up his residence at my monastic abode for one year.
But, as things were, no man could guess what it was that must make him obnoxious to the murderers.
An examination went on that night before the magistrates, but all was dark; although suspicion attached to a negro named Aaron, who had occasionally been employed in menial services by the family, and had been in the house immediately before the murder.
Then came-But enough!
Three weeks had passed since the murder at mr Weishaupt's-three weeks the most agitated that had been known in this sequestered city.
That is one of the luxuries attached to love; all men cede their places with pleasure; women make way.
The distance was not great; and within five minutes several persons returned hastily, and cried out to the crowd of ladies that all was true which the young girl had said.
In the center stood a rustic girl, whose features had been familiar to her for some months.
She had recently come into the city, and had lived with her uncle, a tradesman, not ten doors from Margaret's own residence, partly on the terms of a kinswoman, partly as a servant on trial.
Nobody remembered to have seen them abroad for years.
One or two had some influence with him, and led him away from the spot; while as to Maximilian, so absorbed was he that he had not so much as perceived the affront offered to himself.
It was poor, maniacal Von Harrelstein, who had been absent in the forest for a week.
From her superior height she overlooked all the ladies at the point where she stood.
How, therefore, or when could they have made an enemy?
His mode of defending himself, and his general deportment, were marked by the coolest, nay, the most sneering indifference.
In every point our entertainment was superb; and I remarked that the music was the finest I had heard for years.
I believe that he had not himself suspected the strength of his passion; and the sole resource for him, as I said often, was to quit the city-to engage in active pursuits of enterprise, of ambition, or of science.
A silence of horror seemed to possess the company, most of whom were still unacquainted with the cause of the alarming interruption.
At this moment she was exhausted with excitement, and the nature of the shock she had sustained.
But now came a series of cases destined to fling this earliest murder into the shade.
These thoughts traveled with the rapidity of light through my brain, as at one glance my eye took in the supremacy of beauty and power which seemed to have alighted from the clouds before me. Power, and the contemplation of power, in any absolute incarnation of grandeur or excess, necessarily have the instantaneous effect of quelling all perturbation.
Were there, then, no exceptions to this condition of awestruck admiration?
As to the old gentleman and his wife, their infirmities confined them to the house.
She had clasped the golden pillars which supported the altar-had turned perhaps her dying looks upon the crucifix; for there, with one arm still wreathed about the altar foot, though in her agony she had turned round upon her face, did the elder sister lie when the magistrates first broke open the street door.
I was personally acquainted with every family of the slightest account belonging to the resident population; whether among the old local gentry, or the new settlers whom the late wars had driven to take refuge within our walls.
But my pity soon ceased to be mingled with respect.
On the part of Margaret, it seemed as if a new world had dawned upon her that she had not so much as suspected among the capacities of human experience.
Already had one dance finished; some were pacing up and down, leaning on the arms of their partners; some were reposing from their exertions; when-O heavens! what a shriek! what a gathering tumult!
During the French anabasis to Moscow he entered our service, made himself a prodigious favorite with the whole imperial family, and even now is only in his twenty second year.
For the four last he had lived with me as the sole pupil whom I had, or meant to have, had not the brilliant proposals of the young Russian guardsman persuaded me to break my resolution.
In reality, his wealth and importance, his military honors, and the dignity of his character, as expressed in his manners and deportment, were too eminent to allow of his being treated with less than the highest attention in any society whatever.
In this instance it certainly did no harm to the subject of expectation that I had been warned to look for so much.
The first thing he did, on being acquainted with the suspicions against himself, was to laugh ferociously, and to all appearance most cordially and unaffectedly. He demanded whether a poor man like himself would have left so much wealth as lay scattered abroad in that house-gold repeaters, massy plate, gold snuff boxes-untouched?
The horror, the perfect frenzy of fear, which seized upon the town after that experience, baffles all attempt at description.
True it was, and a fact which had puzzled no less than it had awed the magistrates, that, upon their examination of the premises, many rich articles of bijouterie, jewelry, and personal ornaments, had been found lying underanged, and apparently in their usual situations; articles so portable that in the very hastiest flight some might have been carried off.
There was an altar, in itself a splendid object, furnished with every article of the most costly material and workmanship, for the private celebration of mass.
That argument certainly weighed much in his favor.
That sight was more than could be borne by one who stood a little behind the group.
Most unquestionably, so far as this went, it furnished a negative circumstance in favor of the negro, for the footsteps were very different in outline from his, and smaller, for Aaron was a man of colossal build.
We felt ourselves solitary, and thrown upon our own resources; all combination with other towns being unavailing from their great distance.
He was not naturally of a reserved turn; far from it.
The music again began to pour its voluptuous tides through the bounding pulses of the youthful company; again the flying feet of the dancers began to respond to the measures; again the mounting spirit of delight began to fill the sails of the hurrying night with steady inspiration.
But he was obliged to desist; for he saw that, without effecting any good, he would merely add spiritual disobedience to the other offenses of the young man.
The circumstances were such as to leave every man in utter perplexity as to the presumption for and against him.
True, they were bigoted in a degree which indicated feebleness of intellect; but THAT wounded no man in particular, while to many it recommended them.
In fact, how could it be otherwise?
He is himself one of the noblest looking of God's creatures.
There she had been placed by the host; and everybody knew why.
And yet again it was turned against him; for a magistrate asked him how HE happened to know already that nothing had been touched.
In anything which partakes of the infinite, the most unlimited expectations will find ample room for gratification; while it is certain that ordinary observers, possessing little sensibility, unless where they have been warned to expect, will often fail to see what exists in the most conspicuous splendor.
Try the effects of absence, though but for a month." The good father even made an overture toward imposing a penance upon him, that would have involved an absence of some duration.
But the profound melancholy which possessed him, from whatever cause it arose, necessarily chilled the native freedom of his demeanor, unless when it was revived by strength of friendship or of love.
And, when once that consummation was attained, I, that previously had breathed no syllable of what was stirring, now gave loose to the interesting tidings, and suffered them to spread through the whole compass of the town.
The very police, instead of offering protection or encouragement, were seized with terror for themselves.
He is English by birth, nephew to the Earl of e, and heir presumptive to his immense estates.
Thomas De Quincey
Decisions must be made on the basis of what is good for both, not the selfish or narrow wish of either.
Love gives the push that keeps a marriage moving, but it does not give the direction.
Like everything else that is alive, it must be kept growing through exercise, or it wastes away.
Now that you can see your mate more clearly, you should also be able to see more accurately his, or her, good points, which before were hidden from you in the mist of your enthusiasm.
To interpret the marriage association as little more than sex is to throw away all chance of success, even in the realm of sex.
Here are nine guideposts to help john and Mary along their road:
What makes a successful marriage?
If the expression of anger is to have its proper stimulative effect, it has to be administered but rarely, and then in small doses.
That comes from understanding and cooperation.
That does not mean they are unadapted to each other.
As a continuing part of this life adjustment, sex adjustment can develop into a permanent factor of married happiness; but without the larger adjustment, the partial adjustment cannot be made in any fundamental and enduring form.
Because it is part of the traditional feminine character to enjoy giving in to the man, this tendency must be scrutinized when it appears.
But the first days of marriage bring out a different set of feelings-those that come when one has definitely obtained possession of anything that before was only promised.
Knowing that a fleeting sense of disappointment is not peculiar to one's own marriage, but likely to occur in all, as in every other human undertaking, takes away its power to hurt.
Respect for the other member of the marriage association is a must have.
You cannot help your change of feeling.
At no point can the domination of either partner over the other take the place of adjustment.
This is probably an almost universal experience, marking, not the beginning of the end of love, but the passage from an adolescent type of blind devotion to a more mature affection that persists in spite of being able to admit the flaws it sees.
Roughly, both the helps and the hindrances to married happiness can be lumped under one word-personalities.
For the very young a person must register one hundred percent or be rejected.
Each marriage partner must be proud of the other and let the other continue to be proud of him or her.
It may be a slight uncouthness at table, a peculiar back country phrase or pronunciation, some gesture of timidity or swaggering.
Some of this relaxation is a good thing, but it is a mistake to let home and spouse degenerate into nothing more than an invitation to be lazy.
This changeableness can make her feel resentful after she has given in to her husband.
All this must be taken into account in making decisions.
More has a paralyzing effect on the recipient, producing a response in kind that takes away the ability to think of anything except retaliation.
A woman's feeling that she will be emotionally gratified by making a sacrifice does not prove that, aside from her momentary pleasure, there is any value in it.
The general level of emotion is what counts, not the spectacular scaling of peaks.
To wait until they are beset by them is to beg for trouble.
Then one begins to appraise.
Therefore you have to respect yourself and act as if you did, even at home.
If each one is hurt at the other's inability to join instantly in his, or her, plans, they will need to take pains not to get sidetracked into making a personal contest of the affair.
If john forges ahead on one count, Mary must find an acceptable outlet for herself on some other front.
Both get hurt, but the weak person does nothing but squeal about it, while the robust ignores it except for trying to take some constructive step to prevent future occasions for hurt.
The wife may be alone part of the day and profit by it.
For example, Mary wants to buy a car, just as john is reckoning that the time has come to build a house.
A young couple's engagement period is like any other time of excited anticipation, when one has received the promise of something greatly desired, but must wait awhile before its delivery.
Stiff minded people who are frank only when angry lose their case before they present it.
Other responsibilities, other interests, may serve a similar purpose, though more easily dislodged and seldom striking so deep.
This is why the unique value of children is their service as an entering wedge in the close grown love of husband and wife, a wedge that widens and holds forever wider the unity of love it has penetrated.
The changes a husband or wife makes in the partner's total personality are in the nature of altered emphasis in the expression of traits already present.
The happiness of the waiting period is characterized by the absence of a critical spirit, and therefore is apt to be thought of as an experience of pure delight.
And your vexation terrifies you.
But if john nurses hurt feelings whenever Mary punctures his vanity by suggesting that he presents to the world a less than perfect front, Mary may soon lose courage and relinquish her wifely job of husband improvement.
They two, and nobody else, can make the decision to fit their marriage.
These traits cannot be changed overnight.
Too great concentration is to be avoided.
Before them is a clear road.
At first the emotions seem to stand still-this is the long coveted moment!
While love is still the moving force of their lives, they must study the problems that are due to come.
If one accepts the fact that discrepancy between imagination and reality is inevitable, he is better able to go on to a more thorough examination of the situation, from the fresh viewpoint of finding out just what he has received, regardless of hazy but optimistic expectations; and the object possessed will more than likely turn out to be better than, although different from, what the imagination pictured.
A chief advantage of the married estate is its opportunity for frankness.
There can be no holding on to the present nor seeking to bring back the past.
You remember other people you once thought you loved, and wonder, panic stricken, how you can keep this love from dying as those other loves did.
Some husbands, some wives, are artists at achieving and momentarily living up to romantic settings, but quickly flop down to the lower levels of decent fairness between the high spots of their sentimental flare ups.
When john comes home at night, he has not had that privilege.
Soon or late you find that some familiar mannerism of your spouse displeases you.
Or perhaps he wants to invest money in professional or business advancement at the precise moment when she realizes she wants a child.
Compromise, not submission, should be the rule.
Too many couples exploit the sense of let down that marriage brings with it.
Temperament, mannerisms, tastes-all that is implied in the distinct individuality of each person-make up the chief source of the advantages and disadvantages with which the couple enter marriage.
Your love is now becoming less self centered and more helpful to your partner.
The factor that underlies all the perplexities, and most of the contentment, of marriage is its unique degree of concentrated intimacy. Here the supreme testing always comes.
It is an empty honor, for the one who bends but does not break will readily develop the fine art of influencing the headstrong one.
This difference is one of make-up and training, not of marriage capacity.
One who prides himself or herself on having to be handled with gloves has a great deal of growing up to do in order to be able to be an active partner in the marriage.
After so long a time, husband and wife cease to feel that they must exert themselves for each other in little matters.
The ease or difficulty with which husband or wife makes an adjustment in no way measures the worth of that adjustment for their partnership.
But love is not a finished product that, once it comes, can forever after be trusted to keep its strength.
And finally, they must know what constitutes a happy marriage-what to aim for in their day to day association.
Another terrible moment that is due to come may seem even more frightening because it is you who are slipping.
Does this mean that you no longer love your mate as you did?
There can be no narrowing of marriage to mere sex adjustment.
Knowing themselves accepted, they lounge-mentally, mannerly, and physically-when at home or elsewhere alone together.
Friends, old and new, have a function in relieving the overclose concern of one marriage partner with the other.
Unworried by any fear of calamity, each marriage partner can turn to account his or her powers of discernment by learning to recognize the assets as well as the liabilities of the partnership.
Nor could he, overruling her against her will, find in his choice of home owning or personal career investment the satisfaction he had expected.
We are all immature at some points, but we can welcome opportunities for growth, painful though they may be.
Because reality rarely measures up to imagination, the first answer is almost bound to be, "No, this is not what I expected." And the first emotion tends to be disappointment.
Nor are they necessarily permanent. A chameleon changes color easily to match its environment or temper of the moment, but a human being's more lasting change is not so readily made.
It is useless to discover who can win in any particular skirmish.
Common friends are fine, but for this purpose there is special need of friends for either spouse who can call forth those sides of his or her nature that are not aroused by the mate.
The choice that brings the larger advantage to the two persons in their common role of marriage partners is the one to be made.
What is important is to learn whether one of you is set on being "head of the house." If your spouse craves that distinction, by all means hand it over without delay.
And love is the motive that will make both try to keep open the pathway to marriage success.
If you are tired or irritable, you can rest or exercise for restoration, as in the days before marriage.
These minor changes occur as by products of active response to the personality of the mate in many small daily contacts, and not as a result of exhortation.
Even the greatest love stagnates if it is kept out of the main current of life.
"Why doesn't his wife tell him of that unpleasant mannerism, so he can correct it?" bears witness to the universal appreciation of this function of married life.
Is the object of one's wishes as desirable as one had expected?
Nobody can suddenly change his personality at will, and the effort to do so to please the partner is liable to result in a topheavy hypocrisy-a superstructure calculated to impress the observer, but built on a shaky foundation of chaos.
The smaller issues on which this rests are the lively clashes of opposite desires, inevitable in the coming together of any two persons, intensified when those two persons are as different as a man and a woman, and unavoidable for two committed to a lifetime together in the close quarters of marriage.
In the unhealthy marriage, sympathy will grow into pity, which drives out the indispensable attitude of respect.
In the sex life in marriage, as in other parts of the association, each partner wins by considering the other before the self.
This is what they must guard against.
Others cannot utter a poetic phrase, make a romantic gesture, or let their eyes show the quick intensity of their tender emotions if they must die for it.
The tale is never told.
Trying to win over your partner with a single eye to getting what you want, regardless of its effect on the mate, is short sighted in the extreme. Even if you could care only for personal pleasure, that cannot long outlast your spouse's displeasure.
The marriage partner who is mature will maintain trust in the other's good intentions in the face of what might seem to be occasions for hurt feelings.
Each means so much to the other, each needs so much from the other, that there can be no halfway satisfaction in being together.
Love has grown up between the two as a result of this personality attraction.
As this is an impossibility, they are aware of increasing dissatisfaction.
Frankness must go clothed in tact.
In the healthy marriage, this sympathetic response will soon give way to anger, which in turn may have the effect of a dash of cold water in the face of the oversensitive one, helping him or her to buck up and behave like an adult.
Staging a contest or a succession of small contests, for the sake of finding out who is boss builds up a habit of fighting that may lead to a bitter end.
Not to happiness, as they may believe, but to the opportunity for gaining happiness.
Fatigue and nervousness, expressed, breed fatigue and nervousness in a sympathetic audience.
But there will come a first time when john is too tired to go out with Mary, or vice versa.
The goal is not easily won, but they can attain it without the aid of luck or rare gifts or miracles-simply by practicing the common everyday virtues that bring success in all human ventures.
Because of women's recent growth in socially recognized independence, any individual woman may waver between a craving for self sacrifice and a repugnance to the very thought of it.
How, then, can you hope to keep your affection from disappearing altogether if it has already begun to wane?
Nor is it necessary, or at all wise, that they should be. john attracts Mary, and she appeals to him, because the personality of each one is what it is.
After that was finished, she begged Houarn to accompany her to a fish pond at the bottom of the garden.
I will give you the knife to guard you against the enchantments of wizards, and the bell to tell me of your perils.
The Groac'h seemed overjoyed to see her, and told her that never before had she beheld such a handsome young man.
But the men did not know how this was to be done, and, shaking their heads over his obstinacy, left him to his fate.
As he listened Houarn's mind was made up.
'Is it possible I can have forgotten her so soon?
They were cousins, and as their mothers were great friends, and constantly in and out of each other's houses, they had often been laid in the same cradle, and had played and fought over their games.
'Yes,' answered Bellah, with a deep sigh; 'but we live in such hard times, and at the last fair the price of pigs had risen again.'
With one of the leaves of the cabbage they made her a coat, and another served for a waistcoat; but it took two for the wide breeches which were then in fashion.
'Here I am!' he exclaimed.
The knife frees all it touches from the spells that have been laid on them; while the stick will carry you wherever you want to go.
Now, unless you have been under the sea and beheld all the wonders that lie there, you can never have an idea what the Groac'h's palace was like.
'Then the sooner it is done the better,' said the Groac'h, and gave orders to her servants.
The girl saw it was useless to say more, so she answered sadly:
'Well, you can easily get that,' replied she; 'it is nothing to worry about.
I see I must go further,' and he walked on to Pont aven, a pretty little town built on the bank of a river.
It was at this very moment that Bellah, who was skimming the milk in the farm dairy, heard the fairy bell tinkle violently.
Do not be shy, but tell me how you found your way, and what you want.'
There were so many of them that it took quite a long time.
I can only accept it with joy.'
Bellah took the net which the Groac'h held out, and, turning rapidly, flung it over the witch's head.
'There is no fortune to be made here,' he thought to himself; 'it is a place for spending, and not earning.
The island was large, and lying almost across it was a lake, with a narrow opening to the sea.
Houarn sat down and took out the knife which Bellah had given him, but as soon as the blade touched the fish the enchantment ceased, and four men stood before him.
Instantly she threw the steel net over his head, and the eyes of a little green frog peeped through the meshes.
It was all made of shells, blue and green and pink and lilac and white, shading into each other till you could not tell where one colour ended and the other began.
Unseen by the Groac'h, Bellah hid it in a pocket of her green coat, and then followed her hostess into the garden, and to the pond which contained the fish, their sides shining with a thousand different colours.
She thanked the little men gratefully, and after a few more instructions, jumped on the back of her great bird, and was borne away to the isle of Lok.
The staircases were of crystal, and every separate stair sang like a woodland bird as you put your foot on it. Round the palace were great gardens full of all the plants that grow in the sea, with diamonds for flowers.
But first I will divide with you all that my parents left me,' and going to her room, she opened a small chest, and took from it a bell, a knife, and a little stick.
Without waiting for orders, they sat down in the nest and, crossing their legs comfortably, began to prepare the suit of clothes for Bellah.
'Come lawyer, come miller, come tailor, come singer!' cried she, holding out a net of steel; and at each summons a fish appeared and jumped into the net.
'Well, go then, since you must.
When you have found her you must contrive to get hold of the net of steel that hangs from her waist, and shut her up in it for ever.'
But just as she was going to touch the foremost fish, her eyes fell on a green frog on his knees beside her, his little paws crossed over his little heart.
The stick I shall keep for myself, so that I can fly to you if ever you have need of me.'
Very soon she led her visitor into the great hall, where wine and fruit were always waiting, and on the table lay the magic knife, left there by Houarn.
Many had gone to the island to try and get possession of her treasures, but no one had ever come back.
'Ah! tell me how I can manage that, and if I have to walk round the whole of Brittany on my bended knees I will do it!'
Whenever they met they repeated their grievances, and at length Houarn's patience was exhausted, and one morning he came to Bellah and told her that he was going away to seek his fortune.
'What is it?' asked Houarn, beginning to feel uncomfortable.
But though Houarn held his peace, he was not as happy as before. Something seemed to have gone wrong, and then he suddenly remembered Bellah.
'This is our lord and master, who has saved us from the net of steel and the pot of gold!'
'This bell,' she said, 'can be heard at any distance, however far, but it only rings to warn us that our friends are in great danger.
When it was full she went into a large kitchen and threw them all into a golden pot; but above the bubbling of the water Houarn seemed to hear the whispering of little voices.
At the sight of her Houarn stopped, dazzled by her beauty.
On hearing this Bellah began to laugh.
The girl was very unhappy as she listened to this, and felt sorry that she had not tried to make the best of things.
At one end he perceived a small skiff, painted blue and shaped like a swan, lying under a clump of yellow broom.
'By delivering Houarn, who is in the power of the Groac'h.'
He stood quite still while Bellah scrambled up, then he started off, his pace growing quicker and quicker, till at length the girl could hardly see the trees and houses as they flashed past.
'I have never come across one.' And the men answered that it was the name given to the fairy that dwelt in the lake, and that she was rich-oh! richer than all the kings in the world put together.
Here she found a nest made of clay and lined with dried moss, and in the centre a tiny man, black and wrinkled, who gave a cry of surprise at the sight of Bellah.
But the bird had guessed his intentions, and plunged beneath the water, carrying Houarn with him to the palace of the Groac'h.
But, rapid as the pace was, it was not rapid enough for Bellah, who stooped and said:
'A man would be mad indeed to refuse such an offer.
So Houarn went down to the sea, and found a boatman who engaged to take him to the isle of Lok.
'But where am I to find a young man's clothes?' asked she.
Bellah only drew it the tighter, and, flinging the sorceress into a pit, she rolled a great stone across the mouth, and left her.
'The swallow is less swift than the wind, the wind is less swift than the lightning.
In old times, when all kinds of wonderful things happened in Brittany, there lived in the village of Lanillis, a young man named Houarn Pogamm and a girl called Bellah Postik.
He was sitting on a bench outside an inn, when he heard two men who were loading their mules talking about the Groac'h of the island of Lok.
The hat was cut from the heart of the cabbage, and a pair of shoes from the thick stem.
'Come in,' said the Groac'h, rising to her feet.
Like them, I shall seek till I get what I want-that is, money to buy a cow and a pig to fatten.
'Poor little cock!' she said, 'and how am I to deliver you?'
'The water is getting hot, and it makes the fish jump,' she replied; but soon the noise grew louder and like cries.
'But what are you doing in this nest?'
In the evening she returned to the farm more angry than ever, and quite determined to revenge herself on the brownie whenever she had the chance, which happened to be very soon.
I can take,' he added proudly, 'any shape I choose, and even, which is much harder, be invisible if I want to.'
But it was of no use; he declined to move out of a walk; and she was forced to hear all the jokes that were made upon her.
While now I can receive no presents except from my husband.
It was not long, and when she reached the town she went straight to the dwarfs, who were holding counsel in a wide green place, and said to them, 'Listen, my friends!
Indeed, Barbaik had only to express a wish for it to be satisfied.
If the wind was cold or the sun was hot and she was afraid to go out lest her complexion should be spoilt, she need only to run down to the spring close by and say softly, 'I should like my churns to be full, and my wet linen to be stretched on the hedge to dry,' and she need never give another thought to the matter.
'It is I, the brownie of the lake,' replied the voice.
And she believed that all this was owing to Jegu, and she could no longer do without him, even in her thoughts.
Full of excitement, Barbaik started on her journey.
Then they joined hands and danced round it, singing:
The same thing took place every day, and never had the cow house been so clean nor the cows so fat.
'Why, the farmer's wife has sold her horse's tail!' and turned in her saddle.
She complained to Jegu of his laziness, and he only stared at her, not understanding what she was talking about.
This, also, she thought was the work of Jegu, and she could not help feeling that a husband of this sort would be very useful to a girl who liked to lie in bed and to amuse herself.
'That is my affair.
To her great joy he consented, bidding her set out for the city of the dwarfs and to tell them exactly what she wanted.
Perhaps I may tell you later.
The marriage took place the following month, and a few days later the old man died quite suddenly.
Oh, you wretched dwarf, I will never, never forgive you!'
'What is the matter, Jegu?
Barbaik was furious.
Soon even this grew to be unnecessary, for a day arrived when, coming downstairs, she discovered that the house was swept, the furniture polished, the fire lit, and the food ready, so that she had nothing to do except to ring the great bell which summoned the labourers from the fields to come and eat it.
We were therefore obliged to take refuge in distant lands, and to hide ourselves at first under different animal shapes. Since that time, partly from habit and partly to amuse ourselves, we have continued to transform ourselves, and it was in this way that I got to know you.'
And all the payment the brownie ever asked for was a bowl of broth.
'How?' exclaimed Jegu, filled with astonishment.
The young man glanced up in surprise, and asked who was there.
Next morning was a holiday, and Barbaik was awake earlier than usual, as she wished to get through her work as soon as possible, and be ready to start for a dance which was to be held some distance off.
'But where are you?' inquired Jegu.
She would wear the beautiful dresses that came when she wished for them, and visit her neighbours, who would be dying of envy all the while, and she would be able to dance as much as she wished.
From the very day of her marriage Barbaik had noted with surprise and rage that things ceased to be done for her as they had been done all the weeks and months before.
He was tired with a long day's work, and stood with his hand on the mane of one of the animals, waiting till they had done, and thinking all the while of Barbaik, when a voice came out of the gorse close by.
Morning and evening Barbaik found her earthen pots full of milk and a pound of butter freshly churned, ornamented with leaves.
'Because of a service you did me last winter, which I have never forgotten,' answered the little fellow.
Jegu would always be there to work for her and save for her, and watch over her.
Still he would not leave the farm, and look for work elsewhere, as he might have done, for then he would never see Barbaik at all, and what was life worth to him without that?
Meanwhile you just eat and sleep, and don't worry yourself about anything.'
It was the spring, and just the time of year when the dwarfs held their fete, so one day the brownie asked Jegu if he might bring his friends to have supper in the great barn, and whether he would allow them to dance there.
Yes; it was true.
Her horse had no tail!
She had forgotten to ask for one, and the wicked dwarfs had carried out her orders to the letter!
She had hardly spoken when the horse appeared, and mounting on his back she started for the village where the wedding was to be held.
Of course, Jegu was only too pleased to be able to do anything for the brownie, and he ordered Barbaik to spread her best table cloths in the barn, and to make a quantity of little loaves and pancakes, and, besides, to keep all the milk given by the cows that morning.
Now Jegu had everything to see to himself, and somehow it did not seem so easy as when the farmer was alive.
'But why should you take all this interest in me?' asked the peasant suspiciously.
This transformation rather frightened Jegu, but the brownie bade him have no fears, for he would not do him any harm; indeed, he hoped that Jegu might find him of some use.
'You won't forget that in a hurry,' she said, smiling grimly to herself, but in a moment they were back again with large pots of water, which they poured on the fire.
At the end of a few weeks she grew so used to this state of affairs that she only got up just in time to prepare breakfast.
She went first to the cow house, which it was her duty to keep clean, but to her amazement she found fresh straw put down, the racks filled with hay, the cows milked, and the pails standing neatly in a row.
'Ah! my little brownie, if you can do that, there is nothing I won't give you, except my soul.'
At length she caught some words uttered by one man to another.
But in a moment they all sprang up with a cry, and ran away screaming, for Barbaik had placed pans of hot coals under their feet, and all their poor little toes were burnt.
Jegu declared that nothing could be easier, and then taking off his hat, he thanked the dwarf heartily, and led his horses back to the farm.
But when she looked at Jegu and beheld his red face, squinting eyes, and untidy hair, her anger was doubled.
'Certainly, if you wish,' and the frog jumped on the back of one of the horses, and changed into a little dwarf, all dressed in green.
To be sure, Jegu only replied roughly that he didn't know what she was talking about, but this answer made her feel all the more certain that it was he and nobody else.
Now I do not write all this for the sake of the church rate question.
"But, bless my soul, how ill you look!"
Without answering him-for I was more angry with him than I ought to have been-I repeated-
"I never heard of a church rate."
"Possibly.
"I am not bound to sell except I please, and at my own price."
Why did you not make the honest man's acquaintance?
"FIFTY PER CENT. will be, I think, profit enough even on such a transaction."
It will go to pay counsel, I give you my word, if you do not take it to quench strife."
"I'm not so sure of that.
"I would have paid the church rate for the whole parish ten times over before such a thing should have happened.
And so we parted.
This, I believe, he did during my illness, with the notion of pleasing me by the discovery that the repairs had been already effected according to my mind.
"Twenty shillings!" I exclaimed; "for a table that cost three times as much at least!--What do you expect to sell it for?"
I confess I was rather pleased; for I wanted my people to feel that the church was their property, and that it was their privilege, if they could regard it as a blessing to have the church, to keep it in decent order and repair.
"It's my property, now," interposed the broker.
There was a little chapel down a lane leading from the main street of the village, in which there was service three times every Sunday.
I daresay, likewise, that the natural SHELLINESS of the English had something to do with it.
"Yes," I said, "as right as the devil would have it."
"I did not offer you the table," returned the broker.
Once he came to me about a legal difficulty in connexion with the deed of trust of his chapel; and although I could not help him myself, I directed him to such help as was thorough and cost him nothing.
You have some of them.
You never seemed to care for business."
People came to it from many parts of the parish, amongst whom were the families of two or three farmers of substance, while the village and its neighbourhood contributed a portion of the poorest of the inhabitants.
I have-"
I think I have already alluded to the fact that there were Dissenters in Marshmallows.
You take up that money, or I will.
Now, before I go farther, it is necessary to explain some things.
After this Mr Templeton and I found some opportunities of helping each other.
A year or two before I came, their minister died, and they had chosen another, a very worthy man, of considerable erudition, but of extreme views, as I heard, upon insignificant points, and moved by a great dislike to national churches and episcopacy.
This, I say, is what I had made out about him from what I had heard; and my reader will very probably be inclined to ask, "But why, with principles such as yours, should you have only hearsay to go upon?
"Now," I said, "carry it back into the house."
I had, therefore, to suffer, as was just.
I write it to commemorate the spirit in which Mr Templeton met me.
"Put that table down, I tell you."
"I assure you, sir, I have done everything according to law."
So little seemed to fall to the duty of the churchwarden that I regarded the neglect as a trifle, and was remiss in setting it right.
I rang the bell for my boots, and, to the open mouthed dismay of Mrs Pearson, left the vicarage leaning on Tom's arm.
People will hear you who will not hear me.
Hurrying on in more terror than I can well express lest I should be too late, I reached Mr Templeton's house just as a small mahogany table was being hoisted into a spring cart which stood at the door.
"I didn't expect you would turn against your own churchwarden in the execution of his duty, sir," he said in an offended tone.
"Oh, sir, I know you would be vexed if you hadn't been told," he exclaimed, "and I am sure you will not be angry with me for troubling you."
I turned to Mr Brownrigg.
I had so far recovered that I was able to rise about noon and go into my study, though I was very weak, and had not yet been out, when one morning Mrs Pearson came into the room and said,--
They did so.
Nor did any one of my congregation throw the least difficulty in the churchwarden's way.--And now I must refer to another circumstance in the history of my parish.
The Church was his grandmother, not his mother, and he had not made any acquaintance with her till comparatively late in life.
You and I will help each other, in proportion as we serve the Master.
It was enough for me that Tom bore witness to the fact that at that moment proceedings were thus driven to extremity.
"That's my business," answered the broker.
I assure you I will prosecute you myself.
"I assure you I shall not be angry with you."
But Mr Brownrigg, who, I must say, had taken more pains than might have been expected of him to make himself acquainted with the legalities of his office, did not fail to call a vestry, to which, as usual, no one had responded; whereupon he imposed a rate according to his own unaided judgment.
Indeed, Mr Brownrigg was not the man to have power in his hands unchecked.
It was long before another church rate was levied in Marshmallows.
"If people could only meet, and look each other in the face," said Mr Templeton at length, "they might find there was not such a gulf between them as they had fancied."
But I did not wait to understand all this now.
Are there not countless modes of saying the truth?
"Twenty shillings," returned he, sulkily, "and it won't pay expenses."
Speak that you do know and testify that you have seen.
Preach to them in the name and love of God, Mr Templeton.
The porcine head of the churchwarden was not on his shoulders by accident, nor without significance.
"Put that table down directly."
"What is the matter, Tom?" I said.
I hope I have some.
But, having heard of it, he called himself upon the churchwarden-Mr Brownrigg still-and offered the money cheerfully.
"What church rate?" I cried, starting up from the sofa.
"I did not think you would stand upon ceremony about it, sir.
I need not say he never became a churchman, or that I never expected he would.
And I will be here again at ten."
"Of course not," said Constance.
"It is not for that I wish to go," said Caroline.
"A three months' residence at some medicinal springs in Germany.
"It is not often we have the privilege of listening to so eloquent a speaker as dr Lamb.
"Did I not request you to have that exercise written out?"
Nothing else.
"Not quite destroyed it," replied Constance, though she sighed sadly as she spoke, as if nearly losing heart for the task she had undertaken. "There is so much ill to undo.
"You are not leaving one of them at home to make room for me, I hope, Lady Augusta?"
"Does she?
"And what remedies did he use?" eagerly asked mr Channing.
It must be commenced gradually, almost imperceptibly, little by little.
Martha withdrew with the child.
"Hitherto I have risen at seven, summer and winter.
"A gentleman who has lived for some years amongst the poor heathens is to give a history of his personal experiences.
"Suppose we are both good, and merit it equally?" suggested Fanny.
Lady Augusta came in and proffered the invitation to Constance to accompany them.
"I know," said Caroline, with some contrition.
"My dear, you are fifteen."
And let it be done in future, Martha, before she comes to me."
"You will never put up with our scrambling breakfast, Miss Channing.
"Well?" responded Caroline.
Constance coloured almost to tears with her emotion.
And, just then, Caroline came in, full of eagerness.
"Oh, Martha got up late, and said she had no time to take them out.
"Think of all that is at stake!
"Annabel says you worry her into learning."
One of the girls shall go with us to day; whichever deserves it best."
She entered, took off her things in the room appropriated to her, and passed into the schoolroom.
I was in such a passion."
"I am responsible to One always, Lady Augusta.
"He knows the lecturer well.
"Miss Channing, mamma says she shall take one of us to the missionary meeting, whichever you choose to fix upon.
Arthur, you did not urge it by a single word."
His experience is great, and his whole heart was in his subject.
Constance wondered where she should begin.
They had been speaking in an undertone, standing together at a window, apart from the rest.
MUCH TO ALTER.
"Not very early," answered Constance.
mr Channing was lying on his sofa underneath the other window, and now spoke to mr Yorke.
CHAPTER sixteen.
"No," said Caroline, sharply; "Miss Channing will fix upon me."
It took her scarcely two minutes to get there, for the houses were almost within view of each other.
"Whatever time do you get up?"
Caroline drew a long face.
"How shall you get on with them, Constance?" the Rev.
"Do not be impatient, or it will seem to be further off still.
"It will be only right to do so."
"I suppose this will only apply to the summer months.
"Very well," said Lady Augusta.
Lady Augusta freely confessed that to come earlier would be useless, for she could not get her daughters up.
"I was mentioning your case to him," observed mr Yorke.
Strictly speaking, Lady Augusta did not personally try to get them up, for she generally lay in bed herself.
"If I were to come to you every morning at seven o'clock, would you undertake to get up and be ready for me?" asked Constance.
She said something about it."
"Then why do you wish so much to attend this one?"
I always do anything that William Yorke asks me; and I will do anything for you."
It was empty, though the children ought to have been there, preparing their lessons.
To set to work abruptly would never answer.
The boys are so unruly; and I do not get up to it half my time."
"In what way, Miss Channing?"
Hamish and his difficulties were the dark shadow; though he could not tell this to mr Yorke.
Mind you fix upon me!
"I shall obey Lady Augusta, and decide upon the one who shall best merit it," smiled Constance.
There was so much to do; so much to alter in so many ways.
He is a doctor, you know.
Constance would willingly have commenced the daily routine at an earlier hour.
"Why did you come down half dressed, my dear?"
It will keep in curl all the better, Miss Channing; and perhaps I am going to the missionary meeting with mamma."
"And these?" said Constance, touching the curl papers.
I have not had it on yet.
"My time now belongs to you."
I should like to bring him here to call upon you."
People might say they took up the room of grown up persons."
He told me he came to Europe with very little hope: he feared his complaint had become chronic and incurable. But he has been restored in a wonderful manner, and is in sound health again."
Not only idleness, temper also.
"Carry has not finished her breakfast, Miss Channing," quoth she.
"I think it is possible that his experience in another line may be of service to you," continued mr Yorke.
Fanny came running in, her hair in curl papers, some bread and butter in her hand.
At the same moment Constance Channing was traversing the Boundaries, on her way to Lady Augusta Yorke's, where she had, some days since, commenced her duties.
I think, perhaps, if I could keep her wholly with me for a twelvemonth or so, watching over her constantly, a great deal might be effected."
"That is one of the habits I must alter in the children," thought Constance.
"It is expected to be a very interesting meeting," observed Constance, making no reply to Miss Caroline's special request.
"I am quite dressed," responded Fanny.
At that moment mr Galloway entered: the subject was continued.
"You had a treat, I hear, at the meeting to day?"
I should prefer to do so.
"Who told you they were?" asked Caroline.
It is the very thing, you see, sir, that has been ordered for you."
She is too young to go."
Constance rang the bell.
"I should do better if mamma were not so cross with me, Miss Channing.
"Because I shall wear my new dress.
Caroline burst into tears.
I may not make mine only eye service."
"I have heard so."
She did not speak.
Some of the anecdotes are beautiful."
"We had, indeed, sir," replied mr Yorke, advancing to take a seat near him.
"How very conscientious you are!" laughed Lady Augusta, her tone savouring of ridicule.
Constance then spoke of giving the children the extra two hours, from seven to nine: it was really necessary, she said, if she was to do her duty by them.
"Annabel is fond of talking nonsense; but she is a good, loving child at heart.
Annabel, who is a year younger than you, is twice as advanced."
Lady Augusta was wont to say that she had too much expense with her boys to keep many servants; and the argument was a true one.
Deficient in many ways, Caroline: in goodness, in thoughtfulness, and in other desirable qualities; and greatly so in education.
Gently as the words were spoken, there was no mistaking that the tone was one of authority, and not to be trifled with.
"Then will you begin by rising early, and being ready for me at seven?"
I should very much like to go."
"Yes, I will," answered Caroline.
Alas for poor Caroline's resolution!
"She was lazy this morning!"
"Have the weeds destroyed the good seed?"
"My frock's on, and so is my pinafore."
You would be pleased to hear them."
I shall rise at six now, and come here at seven."
Renewed health, exertion, happiness!
"Be so kind as to take the papers out of Miss Fanny's hair.
"Caroline, do you know that you have disobeyed me?"
"I intended to write it out this morning before you came; but somehow I lay in bed."
Dressing and reading takes me just an hour; for the other hour I find plenty of occupation.
"His complaint was rheumatism, very much, as I fancy, the same sort of rheumatism that afflicts you.
We do not breakfast until nine, on account of Tom and Charley.
"mr Yorke," replied Constance, a pretty blush rising to her cheek.
Constance kissed her.
Then I saw again the beach, with the girl's figure in the pool.
One party came to the gaunt skeleton of the ancient wreck, and found the scattered, fresh picked bones of the shark the girl had killed.
With a last swift, smiling glance up into my face, she turned.
Mercer stared at me silently, grimly, as I told him what I wished. Whatever eloquence I may have, I used on him, and I saw his cold, scientific mind waver before the warmth of my appeal.
I realized that I saw myself, in short, as she saw me.
Through the rent three deep, jagged scratches were clearly visible.
He laughed excitedly.
I threw off the smoking jacket and pulled on a woolen golfing sweater, for the wind was brisk and sharpish.
I'll try to impress that on her.
That, no doubt, was why she hated him.
"You bet!" I said quickly, feeling rather a fool for ragging him when he was in such deadly earnest.
"What's the matter?" I managed to interrupt him.
I'll lengthen these leads so that we can run them out into the pool, and then we'll be ready. Somehow we must induce her to wear one of these things, even if we have to use force.
With a gesture he flung open the door, and I stared, following his glance, down at the great tiled swimming pool.
With a quick, nervous gesture, Mercer fitted the thing to his head, so that the elongated electrode pressed against the back of his neck, extending a few inches down his spine.
The long blade swept in an arc, ripped the pale belly of the monster just as he turned to dart away.
This time she did not grasp me, but watched me intently, as though understanding what I did, and the reasons for it.
She understood, I know she did.
But listen, Taylor. I was amazed, and not a little rattled when she came for me.
Along one wall were the retorts, scales, racks, hoods and elaborate set ups, like the articulated glass and rubber bones of some weird prehistoric monster, that demonstrated Mercer's taste for this branch of science.
I forgot, for the moment, who and what I was.
Instead of a picture, I was conscious then of a sound, like a single pleading word repeated softly, as though someone said "Please!
Apparently every bulb in the place was burning.
Then the scene cleared again.
"I placed her on the bed in the guest room and poured her a stiff drink of Scotch-half a tumblerful, I believe.
Then, filling my lungs with air again, I pulled myself, by means of the ladder, to the bottom of the pool.
I phoned, and here we are!"
This was not the same band I had seen at first.
She was very close now, within a few feet of us.
What-I glanced at Mercer, and he laughed aloud with pleasure and excitement.
The pool-and its occupant.
Here and there figures moved, slim white figures that strolled along the narrow street, or at times shot overhead like veritable torpedoes.
He moved the switch from the position marked "Off" to the second contact point, watching me intently, his dark eyes gleaming.
And so on.
Understand?"
"Taylor?"
"Fine, Taylor!" he greeted me.
Although I had not spoken to her, she had read and accepted the promise.
Fixing my eyes on the girl pleadingly, I settled myself by the edge of the pool to await the second and more momentous part of our experiment.
Like this."
"You're light, light skin, light hair.
"Tell me about it," I said, shaking my head dazedly.
The band approached, seemed to talk with those there, and moved on.
I was aware of the soft little tick in the center of my brain that announced that the switch had been moved to another contact point.
It was his habit to speak slowly and thoughtfully, in his low, musical voice; even in the midst of our hottest arguments, and we had had many of them, his voice had never lost its calm, unhurried gentleness.
The picture grew hazy; I realized Mercer was trying to picture the bottom of the sea.
I was weak and shaking when I finished, but my head was clear.
I smiled back at her and shook my head. She seemed to understand, for the sound ceased, and she studied me with a little thoughtful frown, as though trying to figure out some other method of communication.
On the end of the table nearest the door was still another panel, the smallest of the lot, bearing only a series of jacks along one side, and in the center a switch with four contact points.
Like a flash she turned and faced the monster.
"Get in your car and come down here as fast as possible.
We were standing at one side of the pool, near the center.
"Fire when ready, Gridley," I commented, and sank again to the bottom of the pool.
There was a gray haze of mist everywhere.
You saw that, Taylor-saw her forebears become amphibians, like the now extinct Dipneusta and Ganoideii, or the still existing Neoceratodus, Polypterus and Amia.
The coral structures grew smaller and poorer.
"I can imagine what happened. A momentary, psychic fusing of an ancient, long since broken link.
With both hands I grasped her shoulders, and, smiling, I nodded my head vigorously.
Please! Please!" over and over again.
The girl was thinking of her suffering, taken out of her native element.
We'll add a page to scientific history-a whole big chapter!--that will make us famous. Man this is so big it's swept me off my feet!
They searched ceaselessly for something, and I guessed that something was food.
"You'll see, you'll see!
Mercer shook his head, but made no other reply until we stood again on the edge of the pool.
"If she has," he went on, "it'll make our work very easy."
I think so.
"It will, I know it will!--if we can get her to wear one of these," replied Mercer confidently.
Brushing the cigarette ashes from my smoking jacket, I crossed the room and snatched up the receiver.
As I had already noticed, her eyes were of unusual size, and I saw now that they were an intense shade of blue, with a pupil of extraordinary proportion. Her nose was well shaped, but the nostrils were slightly flattened, and the orifices were rather more elongated than I had ever seen before.
Then I had a view of Mercer's face, so terribly distorted it was barely recognizable. Then a kaleidoscopic maze of inchoate scenes, shot through with flashes of vivid, agonizing colors.
I think I kissed her.
Mercer, during all the years I had known him, had never been moved before to such tempestuous outbursts of enthusiasm.
She came still closer, until she was at my very feet as I stood on the raised ledge that ran around the edge of the pool, her head thrown back, staring straight up at me through the water.
I tried to look away, and found myself unable to move.
I sensed the fact that what I saw now was what the old man was telling, and that the majestic, swirling mist was the turning back of time.
She was such a slim, graceful, almost delicate little thing; the thought that three strong men might not be able to control her seemed almost amusing.
"This is the control panel," explained Mercer.
"The whole affair, you understand, is in laboratory form.
Quickly as I shot to the ladder she was there before me, a dim, wavering white shape, waiting.
I put him into a bathing suit, and we both endeavored to corner her.
Try to get her to wear one, and then you get your head out of water, and don yours. And remember, she won't be able to communicate with us by words-we'll have to get her to convey her thoughts by means of mental pictures.
The figure was moving.
A milling mass of white forms shot through the water in every direction, searching.
I don't blame you.
I did not reply.
The house was completed.
The trees were oddly like undersea growths, which puzzled me for an instant.
"It worked!" he cried.
"In God's name, Mercer, what is it?
Sea bronzed men, with hard, flat muscles and fearless eyes; ready guns slapping their thighs as they-
The girl was watching me, and there was no smile on her face now.
She seemed to propel herself with a sudden mighty thrust of her feet against the bottom; she darted through the water with the speed of an arrow, yet stopped as gently as though she had merely floated there.
She gripped both our shoulders with a gentle pressure, smiling at us.
She did not seem to drink it, but sucked it out of the glass in a single amazing gulp-that's the only word for it.
There was nothing sinister in the gaze, yet I felt my body shaking as though in the grip of a terrible fear.
Mercer was ready to get his message to her.
"I'm going in," I said hoarsely.
Mercer hurried back to the other side of the pool, and I adjusted my head set again, smiling down at the girl.
And in that white bathing suit-yes, I believe she's taken a fancy to you!"
She was gone....
The other two receive.
"As are her feet.
But I seemed to see again the floor of the ocean, with the vague light filtering down from above, and soft, monstrous growths waving their branches lazily in the flood.
The girl was standing where we had left her, and as she looked up into my face, she smiled again, and made a quick gesture with one hand.
"You can judge for yourself whether the trip was worth while.
"You won't be able to stay in the water with her," explained Mercer rapidly.
She was walking slowly away from the cluster of coral structures. Once or twice she paused, and seemed to hold conversation with others of the strange people, but each time she moved on.
But first slip on a bathing suit."
The great cloud of corn colored hair floated down about it, falling below the knees.
Strange exotic trees and dense growths of rank undergrowth choked the earth.
In a few seconds they rose and ran into the water, plunged into it as though they welcomed its embrace, and disappeared.
And I want you to help, and not admire.
Her eyes were glowing.
From somewhere out on the black, heaving Atlantic, the rapid, muffled popping of a speed boat's exhaust drifted clearly through the night.
Porcelain?" I asked hoarsely.
He had not exaggerated.
I looked down into the pool.
It was a knife of whetted stone or bone.
Coral growth were dragged to the spot.
"Why, try it on her!" exclaimed Mercer with mounting enthusiasm.
"Porcelain?
That you think she can give us?" I asked hesitantly.
Then I lowered her into the sea.
"I received your thought regarding Carson, and then turned the switch so that you received my thought.
Crouching there, so that the water was just above the tawny glory of her hair, she gazed up at us.
"Now," he directed, "you put on this one"--he adjusted a second contrivance upon my head, smiling as I shrank from the contact of the cold metal on my skin-"and think!"
Under eight feet of water!"
"You saw her mother and father, saw their suffering, and the joy her return would bring.
"Then I got out and called on Carson for help.
If we only could!"
Rather gingerly I removed the thing from my head and laid it on the table.
Two slim white hands reached towards us, and with one accord, Mercer and I bent towards her.
Somehow I seemed to recognize the child as the girl in the pool.
"And then what, Mercer?" I reminded him, as he paused, apparently lost in thought.
Fascinated, I watched her.
Her body was cold, and deathly white, although her lips were faintly pink, and her heart was beating, faintly but steadily.
Mercer paused a moment, staring at me oddly.
The differences between these people and ourselves would not be noticeable to a casual observer.
Something seemed to tick suddenly, somewhere deep in my consciousness.
The structure itself loomed up before me in a few seconds, a rambling affair with square shouldered balconies and a great deal of wrought iron work, after the most flamboyant Spanish pattern.
"I suppose you're wondering what it's all about.
I glanced down at her.
"It's wizardry, Mercer!
Very nice old chap, Carson, impressive even in his bathing suit.
Her eyes met mine and I knew that I had not misunderstood.
His eyes, dark and large, smiled easily, and shone with interest, but his almost beautiful mouth, beneath the long slim mustache, always closely cropped, seldom smiled with his eyes.
He laughed, an excited, high pitched laugh that irritated me in some subtle way.
As she looked up, her eyes unmistakably sought mine, and her smile seemed warm and inviting.
Her eyes, startlingly large and dark in the strangely white face, were fixed on mine.
"What work?" I asked suspiciously.
As human as you or i I'll tell you all I know, and then you can judge for yourself.
What can I do?"
I saw him run up to the pool and lift the slim, pale figure in his arms.
And so, just as the dawn was breaking, we took her to the shore.
"At last I thought of you.
Dimly, I could see there a low couch, piled high with soft marine growths.
Too much amazed to comment further, I followed my friend.
"She was laying face down in the water, motionless, her head towards the sea, one arm stretched out before her, and her long hair wrapped around her like a half transparent cloak.
If it weren't urgent, I wouldn't be calling you, you know.
"You're not in love, by any chance, and bringing me down here like this merely to back up your own opinion of them eyes and them lips, Mercer?"
I'm sure the three of us can handle her."
It seemed to me that she invited me to join her.
The other three circular electrodes rested on his forehead and either side of his head.
Mercer picked the place up for me at a song.
It helped jerk me back to the normal.
Directly opposite us, seated on the bottom of the pool, was a human figure, nude save for a great mass of tawny hair that fell about her like a silken mantle.
The vision was vague, for Mercer was picturing his thoughts with difficulty.
Her great, weirdly blue eyes seemed to bore into my brain.
With an effort I glanced at Mercer.
He picked up a weird, hastily built contrivance composed of two semi-circular pieces of spring brass, crossed at right angles.
"A whole people there beneath the waves that land man never dreamed of-except, perhaps, the sailors of olden days, with their tales of mermaids, which we are accustomed to laugh at in our wisdom!"
To me, at least, it was quite clear that Mercer was asking whence they came.
'Some may have gone back?' I don't get it."
But behind her darted a black and swifter shadow-a shark!
A heavy, snaky cable led from this panel to the maze of apparatus further on.
"Have-"
Look!" And he held out a thin, aristocratic brown hand before my eyes, a hand that shook with nervous excitement.
"Late this afternoon I decided to go for a little walk along the beach," Mercer began.
"What do you think of her, Taylor?" he asked, his dark eyes dancing with excitement.
"Webbed," nodded Mercer solemnly.
Then he lifted his dark eyes to mine, and smiled, rather wearily.
The impressions grew wilder, swirled, grew gray and indistinct.
Then he pictured again the girl lying in the pool, and once again the sea.
With him were a man and a woman, and a little girl.
"There's more you'd like to learn?
The scene faded.
"Carson, will you operate the switch for us?
The houses were left behind. Before my consciousness now was only a vague and shadowy expanse of ocean floor, and in the sand dim imprints that marked where the strange people had trod, the vague footprints disappearing in the gloom in the direction from which the little weary band had come.
At first they ate the food raw, tearing the flesh from the shells.
Before I could leap from the car, the broad front door, with its rounded top and circular, grilled window, was flung wide, and Mercer came running to meet me.
I saw them capture and kill fish for food, saw them carve the thick, spongy hearts from certain giant growths and eat them.
"I ran up and lifted her from the water.
Then, gradually, it cleared somewhat.
It was a soft, musical beat, like the distant stroke of a mellow gong, but it had all the pleading quality of the word it seemed to bring to mind.
Then, strangling, I tore myself from her embrace and shot to the surface.
Carson and I are both very dark, almost swarthy.
There are only Carson and myself here, you know, and the job's too big for the two of us." He hurried me across the broad concrete porch and into the house.
The leaves were glistening with condensed moisture; swift drops fell incessantly to the soaking ground below.
I turned, but not quickly enough to entirely escape.
"Burglars?" I had never heard Mercer speak in that high pitched, excited voice before; his usual speech was slow and thoughtful, almost didactic.
Mercer was mighty lucky to have a man like Carson....
Rum runners, seeking out their hidden port with their cargo of contraband from Cuba.
The apparatus is strewn all over the place."
"You've got your feet on the ground again, Taylor," he commented soothingly.
They returned the caress, the crowd gathered around them, listening to her story as they moved slowly, happily, towards the distant city.
"I have only three of them; I had planned some three cornered experiments with you, Carson, and myself.
The patio was not large, but it was beautifully done.
"Bring one of your gadgets over here, Mercer," I called across the pool. "I think I'm making progress."
"Man came up from the sea," he said slowly, "and some men went back to it.
"It is the only thing we can do, Taylor," he said quietly.
The great mane of hair which enveloped her was, as I have said, tawny in hue, and almost translucent, like the stems of some seaweeds I have seen.
I can't describe it...."
Mercer, always an indefatigable experimenter, was never above using his friends in the benefit of science.
Others, after a time, joined them in their search, which spread out to the floor of the ocean, away from the dwellings.
Put the different antennae plug into these jacks.
I watched him in silence as he spliced and securely taped the last connection.
As her face came close to my own, I became aware of the humming, crooning sound I had heard before, louder this time.
Then she became a veritable fury.
It was after eleven by the ship's clock on the mantel, and if-
The next instant she was off the bed, her face a perfect mask of hate and agony.
I was on the bottom of the ocean.
The mouth was utterly fascinating, and her teeth, revealed by her engaging smile, were as perfect as it would be possible to imagine.
She would sit there, calm and placid, until one of us entered the water.
"Hello!" I snapped ungraciously into the mouthpiece.
"I fell asleep working on it at three o'clock, or thereabouts, this morning, and some tests with Carson seem to indicate that it is a success.
I remembered only that a note had been sounded that awoke an echo of a long forgotten instinct.
It seemed that they were about to give up the search when suddenly, from out of the watery gloom, there shot a slim white figure-the girl!
It was ablaze with light.
Breathing, Taylor, on the bottom of the pool!
The laboratory, brilliantly illuminated, was littered, as usual, with apparatus of every description.
God!
A strange, dim whirl of pictures swept through my consciousness.
One of the occupants of the room was a very old man; his face was wrinkled, and his hair was silvery.
"Apparently forgetting that I existed, she leaped into the water, and as I approached a moment later I could see her breathing deeply and gratefully, a smile of relief upon her features, as she lay upon the bottom of the pool.
Darting swiftly downward her feet spurned the yellow sand, and she shot at her enemy with amazing speed.
Mercer literally jerked me away from the edge of the pool.
You, together with all mankind, came up out of the sea.
I seemed to see her crash, head on, into one of the massive timbers, and I cried out involuntarily, and glanced down at the girl in the water at my feet.
The man and the woman came up, and I looked closely into their faces.
I forgot time and space.
From the left came a band of men and women, looking around as though in search of some particular spot.
"We'll need his help.
"Webbed?" I asked, startled.
I smiled back at her, and shook my head.
"We can try, old timer," I said, a bit shakenly.
Mercer's eyes were dancing.
He was picturing himself walking long the shore, with the stormy ocean in the background.
I believe everything is functioning properly." He surveyed the panel of instruments hastily, assuring himself that every reading was correct. Then, with all three of the devices he called antennae in his hand, their leads plugged into the control panel, he led the way to the side of the pool.
Here she is!"
Into the scene roamed a pitiful band of people.
It was maddening.
"All set," he nodded.
Mercer was bending over me; speaking softly.
The foundation for one of the semi-circular houses was laid.
The scene swirled and cleared again.
The woman's features were torn with grief; the man's lips were set tight with suffering.
I should have called you to morrow, for further test.
Mercer reached around the door into the laboratory and pressed a button.
I put on my bathing suit and dived into the pool.
Mercer?
It is difficult for me to describe the scene.
The other end of the room was nearly all glass, and opened onto the patio and the swimming pool.
When I climbed the ladder again, she looked after me, smiling confidently.
Then again the vision was swallowed up by the swirling mists of time.
This was a Warren Mercer I did not know.
I didn't argue the matter.
She came closer, walking with the airy grace I had noted before, and my heart pounded against my ribs as she raised one long, slim arm towards me.
"I don't blame you," I said quickly.
Sauntering dreamily, she moved away from the ancient derelict.
There was something devilishly fascinating about the girl's great, dark, searching eyes.
"Yes, that's very true: Carson is a most decent sort of chap." The words were not spoken.
The thing had an indescribably eery effect.
I pointed upward, for I was feeling the need for fresh air again, and slowly mounted the ladder.
The set-up consisted of a whole bank of tubes, each one in its own shielding copper box.
Here was no ocean bottom, but land, rich tropical jungle.
Then their lungs became, in effect, gills, and they lost their power of breathing atmospheric air, and could use only air dissolved in water.
In trying to save her, Mercer had almost killed her.
"Her?" I asked, startled.
I had two reasons in mind.
Perhaps, I thought quickly, this was, with her, a sign of greeting.
"And what's more, I hope you don't."
I threw off the instrument on my head, and dropped down beside her.
Then the band set to work.
"She managed to claw me, just once," Mercer resumed, wrapping the robe about him again.
"I believe she likes you, Taylor," said Mercer thoughtfully.
"Sorry, Mercer," I muttered.
They were barely noticeable, for they were as transparent as the fins of a fish, but they were there, extending nearly to the last joint of each finger.
"I would think-"
Then she saw the pool.
I saw only that pale, smiling face and those great dark eyes.
But it was his present excited speech that amazed me most.
There were persons there, seated on stone or coral chairs, padded with marine growths.
These were a slimmer race, and whereas the first band had been exceedingly swarthy, these were very fair.
And you promised her, Taylor, whether you spoke your promise or not." His smile deepened a bit.
Let's get busy.
"I think I have what you call my thought telegraph perfected, experimentally," he explained rapidly.
"Now you'll see why I called you here," he said tensely.
"What do you mean.
"No, Taylor, we have been party to what was close to a miracle.
I was conscious of the little click that told me the switch had been moved.
Something she had drawn from her girdle shone palely in her hand.
She made again that strange little gesture of invitation.
"I was watching, old man," he said gently.
Heading fearlessly through the darkness, fighting the high seas, still running after the storm of a day or so before, daring a thousand dangers for the sake of the straw packed bottles they carried.
When the scene cleared again, it showed the bottom of the sea.
"You saw why," interrupted Mercer grimly.
The strange creature thrust her face close to mine as my feet touched bottom, and for the first time I saw her features distinctly.
Shall we carry on?"
"Don't you see, Taylor?
You see, as it is now wired only one person transmits thoughts at a time.
She seemed to be reviving, for she was struggling and gasping when I got here with her.
The receiver snapped and crackled; Mercer had hung up the instant he had my assurance that I would come.
Death is the signal for a feast.
I looked down.
"We have no right to keep her from her people," I concluded.
I tore myself away from the staring, curious eyes of the figure.
Both sexes were slim, and there was a remarkable uniformity of size and appearance.
You will, Mercer-you will return her to the sea?"
I headed directly towards the heavy bronze ladder that led to the bottom of the pool.
Straight to the mother and father she came, gripping the shoulder of each with frantic joy.
Then they made what I understood was a fire, although the girl was able to visualize it only as a bright red spot that flickered.
Lifting up her head, I placed the glass to her lips.
Usually his clean cut, olive tinted face was a polite mask that seldom showed even the slightest trace of emotion.
She was frowning, and her eyes were very wide.
Still in our bathing suits we waded out into the ocean, until the waves splashed against our faces.
For a moment she ran after me, rather awkwardly and heavily, but swiftly, nevertheless.
"I believe," replied Mercer, "that she can give us the history of her people, if we can only make her understand what we wish.
But there is no retracing the way."
Would it be as clear to the girl?
The human race as we know it.
I read it in her face.
At last they came to the edge of the sea.
So I picked her up in my arms and brought her to the house as quickly as I could.
She was smiling, and looking up into my eyes.
"The human race," he said gravely, "came up out of sea.
"Like most people in an emergency.
My heart was pounding.
But come in, come in!
I nodded, my head bowed on my streaming chest.
Just a few yards beyond the surf boomed hollowly on the smooth, shady shore, littered now, I knew, by the pitiful spoils of the storm.
"Throw the cap anywhere and come on!"
Will you come?"
And some of his experiments in the past had been rather trying, not to say exciting.
I would need something to keep me under water, with my lungs full of air, and I could get out quickly if it were necessary.
"The salt water would short the antennae, you see.
I could sense Mercer's thoughts now.
"Something got into me.
All around were strange structures of jagged coral, roughly circular as to base, and rounded on top, resembling very much the igloos of the Eskimos.
If it will work on her, and we can direct her thoughts, we can find out her history, the history of her people!
The sound was not at all like the English word.
"I don't know.
He was wearing a bathrobe, hastily flung on over a damp bathing suit, his bare legs terminating in a pair of disreputable slippers.
I carried her, unresisting, trustful, in my arms, while Mercer bore a huge basin of water, in which her head was submerged, so that she might not suffer.
"For Carson," he explained.
Well, she came at me like a shark, quick as a flash, her teeth showing, her hands tearing like claws through the water.
I looked down at the girl.
I felt Mercer's tense, sudden grip upon my arm, but I did not, could not, look at him.
Around many of them grew clusters of strange and colorful seaweeds that waved their banners gently, as though some imperceptible current dallied with them in passing.
They were forced back to the teeming source from whence they came, for lack of food.
Blinded, she did not see that the jutting ribs of the ancient ship were in her path.
A great cloud of blood dyed the water.
In the meantime, we'll look over the set-up.
The white figure of the girl shot onward through the scarlet flood.
And you did!"
"The harder we tried, the more determined I became.
Suddenly a dim shadow swept across the sand at her feet, and she arrowed from the spot like a white, slim meteor.
Then, gesturing toward my own head again, and pointing upward. I climbed the ladder.
I saw that same shore line, but the people had vanished.
He laughed wildly.
"And what do you plan to do now?" I asked eagerly, glancing down at the beautiful pale face that glimmered up at me through the clear water of the pool.
I nodded, and picked up one of the instruments.
"But, Mercer, it's a nightmare!" I protested.
She was staring up at me with her great, curious eyes, and I sensed, through the medium of the instrument I wore, that she was thinking of me.
Both of them bore corroded bronze plates, "The Billows," the name given The Monstrosity by the original owner, a newly rich munitions manufacturer.
Through the water the girl watched him, evident dislike in her eyes.
We'll leave Carson out of to night's experiment, however, for we'll need him to operate this switch.
"We should be able to," I smiled.
On all four ends were bright silvery electrodes, three of them circular in shape, one of them elongated and slightly curved.
"Go," he said: "go, my child." Edward ran out.
"No, no," she vociferated, "no, you cannot wish that!"
Madame de Villefort fell at her husband's feet.
Who has paid me this attention?"
"A cup of chocolate."
"Have you answered the question I put to you on entering the room?--where do you keep the poison you generally use, madame?" Madame de Villefort raised her arms to heaven, and convulsively struck one hand against the other.
She said you would have to speak a great deal in the murder case, and that you should take something to keep up your strength;" and the valet placed the cup on the table nearest to the sofa, which was, like all the rest, covered with papers.
Madame de Villefort was sitting on an ottoman and impatiently turning over the leaves of some newspapers and pamphlets which young Edward, by way of amusing himself, was tearing to pieces before his mother could finish reading them.
"I mean that the wife of the first magistrate in the capital shall not, by her infamy, soil an unblemished name; that she shall not, with one blow, dishonor her husband and her child."
"Monsieur," she said, "I-I do not understand you." And, in her first paroxysm of terror, she had raised herself from the sofa, in the next, stronger very likely than the other, she fell down again on the cushions.
To you I will say, 'Have you not, madame, put aside some of the surest, deadliest, most speedy poison?'"
The Judge.
He had been obliged to seclude himself more than ever, to evade the enormous number of applications presented to him for the purpose of obtaining tickets of admission to the court on the day of trial.
By degrees every one awoke.
Why did you not come down to breakfast?
"You have accomplished these different crimes with impudent address, but which could only deceive those whose affections for you blinded them.
"In the name of our child!
"In the name of the love you once bore me!"
"Yes," he murmured,--"yes, be satisfied."
"I understand," he said, "you confess; but a confession made to the judges, a confession made at the last moment, extorted when the crime cannot be denied, diminishes not the punishment inflicted on the guilty!"
"No!"
"Oh, pardon me, sir; let me live!"
She fainted.
Oh, my brain whirls; I no longer understand anything. Oh, my God, my God!" And she rose, with her hair dishevelled, and her lips foaming.
"Sir! sir!"
The valet then left the room.
He approached her.
His father went up to him, took him in his arms, and kissed his forehead.
"Do you understand me?" he said.
"What did I say?
"Tell your mistress," he at length answered, "that I wish to speak to her, and I beg she will wait for me in her own room."
The next day, Monday, was the first sitting of the assizes.
"You will thank me-for what?"
She was dressed to go out, her bonnet was placed beside her on a chair, and her gloves were on her hands.
In the clover fields beyond the chestnut trees, a lark was mounting up to heaven, while pouring out her clear morning song.
"No, I do not understand; what do you mean?" stammered the unhappy woman, completely overwhelmed.
The magistrate had slept for a short time while the lamp sent forth its final struggles; its flickerings awoke him, and he found his fingers as damp and purple as though they had been dipped in blood.
Have you, then, who have calculated everything with such nicety, have you forgotten to calculate one thing-I mean where the revelation of your crimes will lead you to? Oh, it is impossible-you must have saved some surer, more subtle and deadly poison than any other, that you might escape the punishment that you deserve.
"My mistress wishes much to be present at the trial."
"In the name of heaven!"
The curtain was drawn, and yet the image of his father was so vivid to his mind that he addressed the closed window as though it had been open, and as if through the opening he had beheld the menacing old man.
It might have been thought that he hoped the beverage would be mortal, and that he sought for death to deliver him from a duty which he would rather die than fulfil.
"It is not for you to interrogate, but to answer."
Did you think the punishment would be withheld because you are the wife of him who pronounces it?--No, madame, no; the scaffold awaits the poisoner, whoever she may be, unless, as I just said, the poisoner has taken the precaution of keeping for herself a few drops of her deadliest potion." Madame de Villefort uttered a wild cry, and a hideous and uncontrollable terror spread over her distorted features.
"Well, madame, it will be a laudable action on your part, and I will thank you for it!"
Did you hope to escape it because you were four times guilty?
"For what you have just said."
His head dropped upon his chest, and in this position he paced his study; then he threw himself, dressed as he was, upon a sofa, less to sleep than to rest his limbs, cramped with cold and study.
"Then come to dress and shave me."
Twice you have pronounced that word!"
"Certainly.
"Madame, where do you keep the poison you generally use?" said the magistrate, without any introduction, placing himself between his wife and the door.
"Oh, mercy, mercy, monsieur!"
If I find you alive on my return, you shall sleep to night in the conciergerie." Madame de Villefort sighed; her nerves gave way, and she sunk on the carpet.
"Reflect that I am your wife!"
"What are you bringing me?" said he.
"I did not ask for it.
"No, no, no, I tell you; one day, if I allow you to live, you will perhaps kill him, as you have the others!"
"Oh, sir," she stammered, "I beseech you, do not believe appearances."
When he had finished, he said,--
"Directly, sir." The valet re appeared almost instantly, and, having shaved his master, assisted him to dress entirely in black.
He then entered the room.
"You are a poisoner."
"What to do?"
"You do not answer, madame!" exclaimed the terrible interrogator.
At the door he paused for a moment to wipe his damp, pale brow.
"Where to?"
The king's attorney seemed to experience a sensation of pity; he looked upon her less severely, and, bowing to her, said slowly, "Farewell, madame, farewell!" That farewell struck Madame de Villefort like the executioner's knife.
It was terrible to behold the frightful pallor of that woman, the anguish of her look, the trembling of her whole frame.
"No, no!"
"My mistress, sir.
Have you been working all night?
"To the Palais."
Can you be a coward,--you who have had the courage to witness the death of two old men and a young girl murdered by you?"
"Yes, sir."
Then he added, with a smile yet more terrible than his anger, "It is true, then; you do not deny it!" She moved forward.
"What I require is, that justice be done.
"Oh, do not fear the scaffold, madame," said the magistrate; "I will not dishonor you, since that would be dishonor to myself; no, if you have heard me distinctly, you will understand that you are not to die on the scaffold."
"Bah," said Andrea, a little overcome, by the solemnity of Bertuccio's manner, "why not?"
"And there will be fine doings, if you do not take care."
"I am called," said Andrea.
"Well?"
Then he mentally added,--"Still my unknown protector!
"Come," said Andrea, "you are a man void of compassion; I'll have you turned out." This made the keeper turn around, and he burst into a loud laugh.
"No one."
"Come, sir," he said, "lend me twenty francs; you will soon be paid; you run no risks with me.
The prisoners, in their expressive language, have named it the "Lions' Den," probably because the captives possess teeth which frequently gnaw the bars, and sometimes the keepers also.
"Of course-of course," said the prisoners;--"any one can see he's a gentleman!"
Come, I beseech you, lend me twenty francs, so that I may buy a dressing gown; it is intolerable always to be in a coat and boots!
"An order to conduct you to a room, and to leave you there to talk to me."
"Ah," said Andrea, deeply affected.
"Silence,--be silent!" said Andrea, who knew the delicate sense of hearing possessed by the walls; "for heaven's sake, do not speak so loud!"
The hand which has retreated for a while will be again stretched forth to save me at the very moment when I shall think myself sinking into the abyss.
And what a coat, sir, for a prince of the Cavalcanti!"
You great people always lose something by scandal, notwithstanding your millions.
"To the visitors' room!" said the same voice.
On this paved yard are to be seen,--pacing to and fro from morning till night, pale, careworn, and haggard, like so many shadows,--the men whom justice holds beneath the steel she is sharpening.
"Well, I should say!
"Menaces-I do not fear them.
But Andrea, turning towards them, winked his eyes, rolled his tongue around his cheeks, and smacked his lips in a manner equivalent to a hundred words among the bandits when forced to be silent.
"Let us horsewhip the fine gentleman!" said others.
He was immediately recognized as one of them; the handkerchief was thrown down, and the iron heeled shoe replaced on the foot of the wretch to whom it belonged.
Why should I risk an imprudent step?
"And so closes our interview," said Andrea to the worthy steward; "I wish the troublesome fellow were at the devil!"
But there are some with which, on the contrary, I am not acquainted.
Come, let us talk a little about my father."
"You see some one pays me a visit.
Come, speak, my worthy Corsican, speak!"
Who sends you?"
I am not forgotten.
"Can I be deceived?" he murmured, as he stepped into the oblong and grated vehicle which they call "the salad basket." "Never mind, we shall see!
Some of the inmates of the "Lions' Den" were watching the operations of the prisoner's toilet with considerable interest.
What does scandal signify to me?
The keeper turned his back, and shrugged his shoulders; he did not even laugh at what would have caused any one else to do so; he had heard so many utter the same things,--indeed, he heard nothing else.
The unfortunate youth was intrepid in the attack, and rude in the defence.
"I am no comrade of these people," said the young man, proudly, "you have no right to insult me thus."
"He looks like a big bug," said another; "dresses in fine style.
"Well, then, lend him the twenty francs," said the keeper, leaning on the other shoulder; "surely you will not refuse a comrade!"
It might alienate my protector.
"Oh, yes."
He bestowed the same attention upon the cambric front of a shirt, which had considerably changed in color since his entrance into the prison, and he polished his varnished boots with the corner of a handkerchief embroidered with initials surmounted by a coronet.
The keeper relaxed his hold.
Some voices were heard to say that the gentleman was right; that he intended to be civil, in his way, and that they would set the example of liberty of conscience,--and the mob retired.
"Now," said the steward, "what have you to tell me?"
"Well, in the Champs Elysees there resides a very rich gentleman."
"Read?" he said.
Come, who is my father?"
"Well, be it so.
It is a prison within a prison; the walls are double the thickness of the rest.
"Ah," cried Benedetto, his eyes sparkling with joy.
You have continued your course of villany; you have robbed-you have assassinated."
You were speaking of the Champs Elysees just now, worthy foster father."
"See, the prince is pluming himself," said one of the thieves.
"Because the person who bears it is too highly favored by heaven to be the father of such a wretch as you."
"How did you know I was in prison?"
And yet, frightful though this spot may be, it is looked upon as a kind of paradise by the men whose days are numbered; it is so rare for them to leave the Lions' Den for any other place than the barrier Saint Jacques or the galleys!
I know all these things.
"Oh, these are fine words."
Suddenly a voice was heard at the wicket.
"Everything," he said, "proves me to be under the protection of some powerful person,--this sudden fortune, the facility with which I have overcome all obstacles, an unexpected family and an illustrious name awarded to me, gold showered down upon me, and the most splendid alliances about to be entered into.
"Benedetto!" exclaimed an inspector.
Let us talk of those, if you please.
The court yard of this quarter is enclosed by enormous walls, over which the sun glances obliquely, when it deigns to penetrate into this gulf of moral and physical deformity.
"I will help you.
Let us dispense with useless words.
The prisoners then approached and formed a circle.
I will say"--
"You speak first."
"I came to tell you."
"What is that?" asked Andrea.
"I believe I did."
In the court which we have attempted to describe, and from which a damp vapor was rising, a young man with his hands in his pockets, who had excited much curiosity among the inhabitants of the "Den," might be seen walking.
Benedetto, you are fallen into terrible hands; they are ready to open for you-make use of them.
"Do you think you have to do with galley slaves, or novices in the world?
Oh, what larks!" Meanwhile the object of this hideous admiration approached the wicket, against which one of the keepers was leaning.
What possessions, what reputation, what 'pull,' as Beauchamp says,--have I?
"Oh, no
"My father-I will know who my father is," said the obstinate youth; "I will perish if I must, but I will know it.
There, crouched against the side of the wall which attracts and retains the most heat, they may be seen sometimes talking to one another, but more frequently alone, watching the door, which sometimes opens to call forth one from the gloomy assemblage, or to throw in another outcast from society.
The gratings are every day carefully examined by jailers, whose herculean proportions and cold pitiless expression prove them to have been chosen to reign over their subjects for their superior activity and intelligence.
You must have much to tell me, since you have come to seek me."
"You-you?" said the young man, looking fearfully around him.
"Who, then, am I?"
The cut of his clothes would have made him pass for an elegant man, if those clothes had not been torn to shreds; still they did not show signs of wear, and the fine cloth, beneath the careful hands of the prisoner, soon recovered its gloss in the parts which were still perfect, for the wearer tried his best to make it assume the appearance of a new coat.
Andrea felt his heart leap with joy.
"Do you not recognize me, unhappy child?"
It was at this moment of discomfort that the inspector's voice called him to the visiting room.
"Good!
"The Count of Monte Cristo?"
"At whose house you robbed and murdered, did you not?"
Who sent you?"
"What do you wish me to say?"
If you had me taken to a private room only to tell me this, you might have saved yourself the trouble.
They wish for secrecy, since we are to converse in a private room.
And that caused some trouble, too, because some claimed that their trees were of harder wood than others-and more difficult to gnaw-while others complained that the bark of their trees tasted very bitter, and of course that made their task unpleasant.
And mr Crow began to laugh.
"You're not going to cut down the whole forest, I hope."
And the whole village seemed greatly disappointed, until Grandaddy Beaver made a short speech.
mr Crow looked around.
That's why he put up that sign.
After everybody crept out of his hiding place some time afterward (everyone had to hide for a while, you know), there was mr Crow sitting upon one of the fallen trees.
And it was quickly found that every vote was for Brownie Beaver.
"Say good by to him then," said mr Crow, "for you'll never see him again."
"What do you mean?" Grandaddy Beaver asked.
But no one seemed to care about that.
So they stopped working, for once, and began to plan the celebration. They thought that there ought to be swimming races and tree felling contests.
"No doubt!" mr Crow remarked.
Brownie Beaver himself passed his hat around to take up the votes.
But nobody cared to go.
There were six, including Brownie Beaver, that took part in it.
"In the second place," he continued, "the sign doesn't mean that hunting and fishing are to be stopped.
A HOLIDAY
"What are you going to do next?" he asked.
"Tommy Fox made a visit.
And then we can talk.
After mr Crow flew back to Pleasant Valley to gather news for him, Brownie Beaver carefully counted each day that passed.
And in a wonderfully short time his head appeared above the water and he soon crawled up beside mr Crow.
A NEWFANGLED NEWSPAPER
"Fatty Coon-" mr Crow said-"Fatty Coon was confined to his house by illness Tuesday night.
He knew that Brownie would want to know what prevented the accident.
mrs Woodchuck is worried."
"What pig?"
"The pig they ate," said mr Crow.
"There you go again!" cried mr Crow.
"Old dog Spot chased him," mr Crow replied.
"At Farmer Green's hen house," mr Crow explained.
"Pig?" Brownie Beaver asked.
Being a newspaper, he thought he ought to say nothing except what was news-not even "Good afternoon!"
"Another question!
"You've done just as I told you not to.
"On Thursday mr Woodchuck went to visit his cousins in the West.
But he didn't have a good time at all," mr Crow reported, "and he left faster than he came."
mr Crow paused and looked at Brownie Beaver out of the corner of his eye.
And he went right on talking.
"Then-" said mr Crow-"then don't interrupt me again, please!
But not before!" he insisted.
At least, it seemed so to him.
"What happened on Friday?"
An enjoyable time was had by all-except the pig."
Whenever he saw a bird soaring above the tree tops he couldn't help hoping it was mr Crow.
You see, you have a few things to learn about taking a newspaper." And 'he would give Brownie no more news that day.
"She's afraid he's coming back again," mr Crow explained.
I'll tell you all the news I've brought.
But mr Crow really came at last.
Jimmy Rabbit almost cut off Frisky Squirrel's tail."
He lighted right on top of Brownie Beaver's house and called "Paper!" down the chimney-just like that!
Pompey had long been with the trader, and knew his business; and if he did not take delight in discharging his duty, he did it with a degree of alacrity, so that he might receive the approbation of his master.
"Now go back to your bed, and be up in time to morrow morning to brush my clothes and clean my boots, do you hear?"
In a few moments a fine looking, bright eyed mulatto boy, apparently about fifteen years of age, was standing by his master's side at the table.
The saloons and cabins soon had the appearance of a hospital.
"Yes."
"Then you bet the whole of the boy, do you?"
GOING TO THE SOUTH
"I will see you, and five hundred dollars better," said Smith, as his servant Jerry approached the table.
One dense fog of steam filled every part of the vessel, while shrieks, groans, and cries were heard on every hand.
"Stand up, Currer, my gal; here's a gentleman who wishes to see if you will suit him."
This was a signal for a general commotion on the Patriot, and everything indicated that a steamboat race was at hand.
It was now twelve o'clock at night, and instead of the passengers being asleep the majority were ambling in the saloons.
Walker and the parson went into the saloon, talked over the matter, the bill of sale was made out, the money paid over, and the clergyman left, with the understanding that the woman should be delivered to him at his house.
How old is you?" addressing himself to a man who, from appearance, was not less than forty.
At the starting of the boat cold water was forced into the boilers by the machinery, and, as might have been expected, one of the boilers immediately exploded.
My father gave him to me when I came of age, and I promised not to part with him."
The next morning, as the passengers were assembling in the breakfast saloons and upon the guards of the vessel, and the servants were seen running about waiting upon or looking for their masters, poor Jerry was entering his new master's stateroom with his boots.
"You will not forget that you belong to me," said Johnson, as the young slave was stepping from the table to a chair.
"Go call my boy, steward," said mr Smith, as he took his cards one by one from the table.
"No, sir," replied the chattel.
At this moment the engineer of the Patriot was seen to fasten down the safety valve, so that no steam should escape.
The blaze, mingled with the black smoke, showed plainly that the other boat was burning more than wood.
On the fourth day, while at Natchez, taking in freight and passengers, Walker, who had been on shore to see some of his old customers, returned, accompanied by a tall, thin faced man, dressed in black, with a white neckcloth, which immediately proclaimed him to be a clergyman.
The Patriot stopped to take in passengers, and still no steam was permitted to escape.
Therefore the slave trader very frequently carried out this deception with perfect impunity.
A man at one of the tables where they were gambling had been seen attempting to conceal a card in his sleeve, and one of the party seized his pistol and fired; but fortunately the barrel of the pistol was knocked up, just as it was about to be discharged, and the ball passed through the upper deck, instead of the man's head, as intended.
Their grey hair and whiskers at once pronounced them to be above the ages set down in the trader's advertisement.
On the arrival of the boat at Baton Rouge, an additional number of passengers were taken on board; and, amongst them, several persons who had been attending the races.
CHAPTER two
He goes to bed at night the property of the man with whom he has lived for years, and gets up in the morning the slave of some one whom he has never seen before!
"I was twenty nine last potato digging time," said the man.
This plan was successful; for not even Clotel, who had been every day at the prison to see her mother and sister, knew of their departure.
"Here she is, and no mistake," replied the trader.
"How old is you?" asked Pompey of a tall, strong looking man.
The two boats soon locked, so that the hands of the boats were passing from vessel to vessel, and the wildest excitement prevailed throughout amongst both passengers and crew.
This was, indeed, a dangerous resort.
It was on the second day of the steamer's voyage that Pompey selected five of the old slaves, took them in a room by themselves, and commenced preparing them for the market.
However, nothing serious had occurred.
A march of eight days through the interior of the state, and they arrived on the banks of the Ohio river, where they were all put on board a steamer, and then speedily sailed for the place of their destination.
"Geemes," answered the man.
"Most certainly, sir, the boy shall be yours, whenever you hand me over a cool thousand," replied Johnson.
"Our eyes are yet on Afric's shores, Her thousand wrongs we still deplore; We see the grim slave trader there; We hear his fettered victim's prayer; And hasten to the sufferer's aid, Forgetful of our own 'slave trade.'
By the time the boats had reached Memphis, they were side by side, and each exerting itself to keep the ascendancy in point of speed.
Nothing can exceed the excitement attendant upon a steamboat race on the Mississippi river.
"Yes."
Smith took from his pocket the bill of sale and handed it to Johnson; at the same time saying, "I claim the right of redeeming that boy, mr Johnson.
Few persons can arrive at anything like the age of a Negro, by mere observation, unless they are well acquainted with the race.
Pompey gave each to understand how old he was to be when asked by persons who wished to purchase, and then reported to his master that the "old boys" were all right.
The night was clear, the moon shining brightly, and the boats so near to each other that the passengers were calling out from one boat to the other.
"Yes, sir," responded Jerry, as he wiped the tears from his eyes.
DICK WALKER, the slave speculator, who had purchased Currer and Althesa, put them in prison until his gang was made up, and then, with his forty slaves, started for the New Orleans market.
It seemed as if poor Althesa would have wept herself to death, for the first two days after her mother had been torn from her side by the hand of the ruthless trafficker in human flesh.
As many of the slaves had been brought up in Richmond, and had relations residing there, the slave trader determined to leave the city early in the morning, so as not to witness any of those scenes so common where slaves are separated from their relatives and friends, when about departing for the Southern market.
At eight o'clock on the evening of the third day, the lights of another steamer were seen in the distance, and apparently coming up very fast.
"I want a good, trusty woman for house service," said the stranger, as they entered the cabin where Walker's slaves were kept.
"If I live to see next corn planting time I will either be forty five or fifty five, I don't know which."
On board the Patriot, the firemen were using oil, lard, butter, and even bacon, with the wood, for the purpose of raising the steam to its highest pitch.
After the steamer had left the wharf, and was fairly on the bosom of the Father of Waters, Walker called his servant Pompey to him, and instructed him as to "getting the Negroes ready for market." Amongst the forty Negroes were several whose appearance indicated that they had seen some years, and had gone through some services.
"I call you, then," said Johnson, at the same time spreading his cards out upon the table.
"Yes," responded Toby.
Gambling and drinking were now the order of the day.
"Oh, Uncle Jim, is it?"
"She is a rare cook, a good washer, and will suit you to a T, I am sure."
"You have beat me," said Smith, as soon as he saw the cards. Jerry, who was standing on top of the table, with the bank notes and silver dollars round his feet, was now ordered to descend from the table.
The dam was there still.
Some of their food they carried into their houses through a straight hall which was made for that very purpose.
They would have had no place, either, to store their winter's food. For they were in the habit of cutting down trees and saving the bark and branches too, in order to have plenty to eat when cold weather came and the ice closed their pond.
There was a small stream, too, which was really the beginning of Swift River.
It was just like putting green things into a refrigerator, so they will keep.
It was a different sort of town, too, from the one where Farmer Green went each week.
If Brownie Beaver and his friends had neglected their dam, they would have waked up some day and found that their pond was empty; and without any water to hide their doorways they would have been safe no longer.
Though he owned the land where it stood, those that lived there thought they had every right to stay there as long as they pleased, without being disturbed.
It was so old that trees were growing on it. And there was an odd thing about it: it was never finished.
A QUEER PLACE TO LIVE
Now you see why Brownie Beaver would no more have thought of building his house on dry land than you would think of building one in a pond. Everybody likes his own way best.
Subsequently every opportunity is made use of to disparage the new arrival, and even attempts to do him bodily harm, direct attacks, are not unheard of.
The only satisfactory answer would be this, that only in this manner can a dream be built up, that dynamically the dream stimulus can be satisfied only in this way.
As a result of the whole investigation we grasp two facts, which, however, disclose only the beginnings of new riddles, new doubts.
Let the stork take him away again," are very usual.
The motives for this are everywhere known and disclose a tendency to separate those of the same sex, daughter from mother, father from son.
The child is able to speak well at the age of two, it soon shows that it can become adjusted to the most complicated psychic situations, and makes remarks which years later are retold to it, but which it has itself entirely forgotten.
Our memory deals selectively with its later materials, with impressions which come to us in later life.
On the other hand, it is interesting that this Oedipus complex, cast out of life, was yielded up to poetry and given the freest play.
Especially noteworthy among these forbidden wishes are those of incest, i e, those directed towards sexual intercourse with parents and brothers and sisters.
THE DREAM
I mean the fact that the first years, to the fifth, sixth or eighth, have not left the same traces in our memory as have later experiences.
I trust this will be true, but this work has not, up to the present time, been undertaken.
Just think of the scandalized opinion of the fine old lady about her uninterpreted dream of "services of love." The problem is not yet solved, and it is still possible that upon further study of the evil in the dream we shall come to some other decision and arrive at another valuation of human nature.
THIRTEENTH LECTURE
He knows no unbridgable chasm between man and animal; the arrogance with which man distinguishes himself from the animal is a later acquisition.
This frightful evil is simply the original, primitive, infantile side of psychic life, which we may find in action in children, which we overlook partly because of the slightness of its dimensions, partly because it is lightly considered, since we demand no ethical heights of the child. Since the dream regresses to this stage, it seems to have made apparent the evil that lies in us.
You know what antipathy society feels toward such intercourse, or at least pretends to feel, and what weight is laid on the prohibitions directed against it.
The child may, then, be called "polymorphus perverse," and if he makes but slight use of all these impulses, it is, on the one hand, because of their lesser intensity as compared to later life, and on the other hand, because the bringing up of the child immediately and energetically suppresses all his sexual expressions.
Still they are unconscious; how does one solve this contradiction?
Sachs).
Psychoanalytic research has incontrovertibly shown that the incestuous love choice is rather the first and most customary choice, and that not until later is there any resistance, the source of which probably is to be found in the individual psychology.
For the child loves itself first, and later learns to love others, to sacrifice something of its ego for another.
You will wish to conclude therefrom that such wishes and such dreams cannot occur if such changes in the relationship to a person have not taken place; if such relationship was always of the same character.
According to my unchanged conviction there is nothing to deny and nothing to make more palatable.
This question is justified.
None of these limitations exist in the beginning, but are gradually built up in the course of development and education.
The reason for this is that the deepest and most uniform motive for becoming unfriendly, especially between persons of the same sex, has already made its influence felt in earliest childhood.
He was a one eyed man, short in stature, stout, his head deeply sunk into his neck.
Expressions such as "I don't want him!
You say: "Granted this death wish was present at some time or other, and is substantiated by memory, yet this is no explanation.
Let us be satisfied with the circumstantial proof that this outlived wish can be shown to act as a dream stimulator and let us continue the investigation to see whether or not other evil wishes admit of the same derivation out of the past.
As often as someone has been in our way in life-and how often must this happen in the complicated relationships of life-the dream is ready to do away with him, be he father, mother, brother, sister, spouse, etc
One should accept the fact, recognized by the Greek myth itself, as inevitable destiny.
The estranging impression that there is so much evil in man, begins to weaken.
Why should it be recalled by the dream at all!"
Many things are taking place there that are not reasonable, and so it happens that we are ashamed of such dreams, and unreasonably.
I mean the love rivalry, with the especial emphasis of the sex character.
Because there is an unmistakable disposition to deny their significance in life, and to set forth the ideal demanded by society as a fulfilled thing much oftener than it really is fulfilled.
So we called the mode of expression of the dream work the archaic or regressive.
Less strained is the relationship between father and daughter, mother and son.
You probably all know from your own experiences the peculiar amnesia, that is, loss of memory, concerning childhood.
In addition, children frequently react to the Oedipus idea through stimulation by the parents, who in the placing of their affection are often led by sex differences, so that the father prefers the daughter, the mother the son; or again, where the marital affection has cooled, and this love is substituted for the outworn love.
We are not so evil as we might suspect from the interpretation of dreams.
But I must remain within the bounds of our discussion and practice restraint. Prepare yourselves for the temporary abstention.
But it is only a deceptive appearance by which we have allowed ourselves to be frightened.
The time will soon come, however, when we shall clothe the unconscious character of the latent dream thought with another name, which shall differentiate it from the unconscious out of the realm of the infantile.
We can, at a pinch, understand hatred of brothers and sisters, and rivalry among them, but how may feelings of hatred force their way into the relationship between daughter and mother, parents and children?
I believe it was Bernard Shaw who said: "If there is anyone who hates a young English lady more than does her mother, it is her elder sister." There is something about this saying, however, that arouses our antipathy.
But it is preferable for psychology to speak the truth, rather than that this task should be left to the cynic.
This relationship is without doubt the more favorable, even when looked at from the viewpoint of the child.
It is long outlived, to day it can be present only in the unconscious and as an empty, emotionless memory, but not as a strong impulse.
First: the regression of dream work is not only formal, it is also of greater import.
This suppression continues in theory, so to say, since the grown ups are careful to control part of the childish sex expressions, and to disguise another part by misrepresenting its sexual nature until they can deny the whole business.
Let us sum up what our plunge into child psychology has given us toward the understanding of the dream.
Thus we are moved to study the development of sex life in the child also, and we discover the following from a number of sources: In the first place, it is a mistake to deny that the child has a sexual life, and to take it for granted that sexuality commences with the ripening of the genitals at the time of puberty.
The little child is free from them.
If the difference in age is greater, the new child may awaken certain sympathies as an interesting object, as a sort of living doll, and if the difference is eight years or more, motherly impulses, especially in the case of girls, may come into play.
And if they must, because of the dream censorship, disguise themselves through old forms of expression which are no longer comprehensible, what is the use of giving new life to old, long outgrown psychic stimuli, wishes and character types, that is, why the material regression in addition to the formal?
It not only translates our thoughts into a primitive form of expression, but it reawakens the peculiarities of our primitive psychic life, the ancient predominance of the ego, the earliest impulses of our sexual life, even our old intellectual property, if we may consider the symbolic relations as such.
It is not to be wondered at that in the case of a large number of people the dream discloses the wish for the removal of the parents, especially the parent of the same sex.
I concluded from the content that he was a physician.
After we have interpreted such a dream for the dreamer and he, in the most favorable circumstances does not attack the interpretation itself, he almost always asks the question whence such a wish comes, since it seems foreign to him and he feels conscious of just the opposite sensations. We need not hesitate to point out this origin.
But the latent dream thoughts, which we have solved by means of the dream interpretation, are not of this realm.
This is in accord with our expectation; we find it much more offensive for love between parents and children to be lacking than for love between brothers and sisters.
Impatient waiting for the death of the father grows to heights approximating tragedy in the case of a successor to the throne.
These evil wish impulses have their origin in the past, often in a past which is not too far away.
Beautiful examples of this occur in literature, and I myself can present such an example.
For this reason I have called these childhood memories "disguise memories," memories used to conceal; by means of careful analysis one is able to develop out of them everything that is forgotten.
To reach it we had to go all the way up Ceylon's west coast.
"My gallant Ned," I replied, laughing, "those were artificial pearls, ordinary glass beads whose insides were coated with Essence of Orient."
"Or on the occupational hazards that-"
"Certainly, captain."
"Oh! Elsewhere!" Conseil put in, shaking his head.
The mussels of certain streams in Scotland, Wales, Ireland, Saxony, Bohemia, and France."
"Here, no," Ned Land said.
You will be going with us, right?"
"According to Sirr's book," I replied, "these Ceylon fisheries are farmed annually for a total profit of three million man eaters."
Finally, classed in the lowest order, the smallest pearls are known by the name seed pearls; they're priced by the measuring cup and are used mainly in the creation of embroidery for church vestments."
"Yes, my boy.
The captain said a few words to his chief officer who went out immediately.
It's worthless."
A New Proposition from Captain Nemo
But its nucleus is always some small, hard object, say a sterile egg or a grain of sand, around which the mother of pearl is deposited in thin, concentric layers over several years in succession."
"Yes!
"No, my friend.
"Yet it strikes me that diving suits like yours could perform yeoman service in such work."
"Fine.
"You mean," I said, "that such primitive methods are still all that they use?"
CHAPTER two
"But," I went on, "for secreting pearls, the ideal mollusk is the pearl oyster Meleagrina margaritifera, that valuable shellfish.
"He said you'd already discussed this little stroll."
"We're used to them, the rest of us," Captain Nemo answered. "And in time you will be too.
"That Essence of Orient must sell for quite a large sum."
"No," I replied quickly, "especially if one takes certain precautions."
I can see that you like the idea, mr Land."
"All right, sit down, my friends, and I'll teach you everything I myself have just been taught by the Englishman h c Sirr!"
"Not a one, mr Naturalist.
For my part, I stared at them with anxious eyes, as if they were already missing a limb or two. Should I alert them?
No doubt we'll be arriving a little early.
And if we ever brought back to Europe or America a pearl worth millions, it would make the story of our adventures more authentic-and much more rewarding."
Next they're immersed in huge tanks of salt water, then they're opened up and washed. At this point the sorters begin their twofold task.
Ned and Conseil took seats on a couch, and right off the Canadian said to me:
You see, sir, these sharks are badly designed.
I went back to reading Sirr's book, but I leafed through it mechanically. Between the lines I kept seeing fearsome, wide open jaws.
"What risks would you run in a job like that?" Ned Land said. "Swallowing a few gulps of salt water?"
"I admit, captain, I'm not yet on very familiar terms with that genus of fish."
"But I don't think these fisheries bring in the returns they once did. Similarly, the Central American fisheries used to make an annual profit of four million francs during the reign of King Charles the fifth, but now they bring in only two thirds of that amount.
"Yes, my boy.
"Francs!" Conseil rebuked.
"Yes, since those poor fishermen can't stay long underwater. On his voyage to Ceylon, the Englishman Percival made much of a Kaffir who stayed under five minutes without coming up to the surface, but I find that hard to believe.
It's easily done.
Reentering the lounge, I first noted the bearings of Ceylon, on which antiquity lavished so many different names.
"He didn't tell you anything else?"
"In the water?"
"Well?" Captain Nemo went on.
"Me?
"In fact," I said, "mr
"Only one penny to those poor people who make their employers rich! That's atrocious!"
"What good would a pearl worth millions do us here on the Nautilus?"
The spherical ones are made into bracelets; the pear shaped ones into earrings, and since they're the most valuable, they're priced individually. The other pearls that stick to the oyster's shell are more erratically shaped and are priced by weight.
three million francs!" I went on.
"Sharks?" I exclaimed.
"Exactly.
"It must have tasted pretty bad," Ned Land added.
"A simple trip to an oysterbank?"
"Yes," I said, "it's a sad occupation, and one that exists only to gratify the whims of fashion.
Land is right.
"Yes, francs!
On the valves a pearl sticks fast; on the flesh it lies loose.
"Me?" the Canadian replied.
"I'm afraid I must be frank with master."
Now's my chance to hunt lions and tigers!" But if you're invited to hunt sharks in their native element, you might want to think it over before accepting.
"Do the prices of these pearls differ depending on their size?" Conseil asked.
"Ha!" Ned Land exclaimed.
Right off, I observed a cluster of mountains about two thousand feet high, whose shapes were very whimsically sculpted. After our position fix, I reentered the lounge, and when our bearings were reported on the chart, I saw that we were off the island of Ceylon, that pearl dangling from the lower lobe of the Indian peninsula.
"Hardly, professor.
It's even said that in eighteen fourteen, when the English government went fishing on its own behalf, its divers worked just twenty days and brought up seventy six million oysters."
And could master tell us the profits brought in by harvesting these banks of pearl oysters?"
"Your Captain Nemo-the devil take him-has just made us a very pleasant proposition!"
The finest pearls are called virgin pearls, or paragons; they form in isolation within the mollusk's tissue. They're white, often opaque but sometimes of opalescent transparency, and usually spherical or pear shaped.
"Dangerous?" Ned Land replied.
"On the fishing itself?" I asked.
"By the way, Professor Aronnax, you aren't afraid of sharks, are you?"
I went looking in the library for a book about this island, one of the most fertile in the world.
Pearls result simply from mother of pearl solidifying into a globular shape. Either they stick to the oyster's shell, or they become embedded in the creature's folds.
With the chart under my eyes, I looked for the Gulf of Mannar.
But tell me, captain, how many oysters can a boat fish up in a workday?"
That task is performed with eleven strainers, or sieves, that are pierced with different numbers of holes. Those pearls staying in the strainers with twenty to eighty holes are in the first order.
"As little as zero!
"Did I say sharks?" I exclaimed hastily.
What are your feelings about these man eaters?"
He did so in the most cordial terms and conducted himself like a true gentleman."
"Nothing, sir," the Canadian replied.
Just then Captain Nemo and his chief officer appeared.
"Good!" the Canadian replied.
"I'm a professional harpooner! It's my job to make a mockery of them!"
As for Ned Land, I admit I felt less confident of his wisdom. Danger, however great, held a perennial attraction for his aggressive nature.
Assuredly, Captain Nemo hadn't seen fit to plant the idea of sharks in the minds of my companions.
"But," I said, "getting back to pearls of great value, I don't think any sovereign ever possessed one superior to the pearl owned by Captain Nemo."
Why yes, certainly, of course!
"So it's an issue of . . . ?"
"Before we tackle the terrain, it helps to be familiar with it."
They have to roll their bellies over to snap you up, and in the meantime . . ."
It comes from the scales of a European carp, it's nothing more than a silver substance that collects in the water and is preserved in ammonia.
"Are mussels included too?" the Canadian asked.
"That's how I see it," the Canadian said.
"And why not?"
"Whatever you say, Ned." Then, trying to imitate Captain Nemo's carefree tone, I asked, "By the way, gallant Ned, are you afraid of sharks?"
"Oh!" I said "You know about-"
"Maybe that's why Kate Tender married somebody else," replied mr Land philosophically.
"Indeed," I said.
"On the fishing," the Canadian replied.
If you're invited to hunt bears in the Swiss mountains, you might say: "Oh good, I get to go bear hunting tomorrow!" If you're invited to hunt lions on the Atlas plains or tigers in the jungles of India, you might say: "Ha!
Thus they die in the open air, and by the end of ten days they've rotted sufficiently.
"On that note, professor," Captain Nemo told me, "you and your companions will visit the Mannar oysterbank, and if by chance some eager fisherman arrives early, well, we can watch him at work."
"But when a little glass of vinegar is worth one million five hundred thousand francs, its taste is a small price to pay."
Yes, surely, but I hardly knew how to go about it.
"Cleopatra," Conseil shot back.
"Yes!
"Sir, just what is a pearl exactly?"
I found it by the ninth parallel off the northwestern shores of Ceylon.
"Yes," I said, "two million francs, and no doubt all it cost our captain was the effort to pick it up."
I've just been through the list of Italian counts, and his name is not there.
I do not imagine we shall see much of this young man, in any event, and now that you are well aware of the fact that he is sailing under false colors, you will know how to handle him better than I can advise you."
But I have resided much in New York, and may well claim to be an adopted son of your great city."
He was a nice looking young fellow, Beth thought, and had a foreign and quite distinguished air.
It was almost their first glimpse of foreign manners and customs.
He resolved to find out something about his antecedents before he permitted the young fellow to establish friendly relations with his girls.
"I thought you were Count Ferralti."
"I!
"Are you Italian?" asked Uncle john, regarding the young man critically.
Presently Louise turned with cheeks somewhat flushed and brought the gentleman to her party, introducing him to Uncle john and her cousins as Count Ferralti, whom she had once met in New York while he was on a visit to America.
At dinner it was announced that the famous Tarantella would be danced in the lower hall of the hotel at nine o'clock, and the girls told Uncle john that they must not miss this famous sight, which is one of the most unique in Sorrento, or indeed in all Italy.
"Well then, girls, what do you say to a stroll around the village?" asked their uncle.
"And that is right, sir," was the prompt reply.
He felt he was in an awkward position, for Louise was the most experienced in worldly ways of his three nieces and he had no desire to pose as a stern guardian or to deprive his girls of any passing pleasure they might enjoy.
It will be better to avoid him."
Uncle john walked away.
Uncle john hardly knew what to say further.
A goodly audience had already assembled in the room, and among them the girl seemed to recognize an acquaintance, for after a brief hesitation she advanced and placed her hand in that of a gentleman who had risen on her entrance and hastened toward her.
In their rooms that night Patsy told Beth that the young foreigner was "too highfalutin' to suit her," and Beth replied that his manners were so like those of their Cousin Louise that the two ought to get along nicely together.
The girl paused, examining the point of her pen thoughtfully.
Of course we won't encourage this young man in any way.
"Whom, sir?"
"I wonder why he has tried to deceive us."
Either fortunately or unfortunately-I cannot say-you have no need of such a book in America."
He turned the pages and ran his finger down the line of "f's."
As they entered the pretty, circular hall devoted to the dance Louise gave a start of surprise.
When an imposture is unmasked it is no longer dangerous.
The other girls exchanged glances, but made no remark.
The name of Ferralti was no place in the record.
Afterward Uncle john and his nieces stood upon the terrace and watched the volcano rolling its dense clouds, mingled with sparks of red hot scoria, toward the sky.
The dancers entered at that moment and the Americans were forced to seat themselves hastily so as not to obstruct the view of others.
It is the same as the 'Blue Book' or the 'Peerage' of England.
"New York adopts a good many," said Uncle john, drily.
"Oh, the world is full of impostors; but when you are on to their game they are quite harmless.
Here is our record of nobility.
"That I cannot tell you, Signor Merrick."
"He-he seems very nice and gentlemanly," said Louise with hesitation.
Uncle john liked his nieces to make friends, and encouraged young men generally to meet them; but there was something in the appearance of this callow Italian nobleman that stamped his character as artificial and insincere.
"I misunderstood your name last evening," he said.
Floriano, the proprietor, who knows every aristocrat in Italy, has never before heard of him."
Uncle john whistled softly and walked away to the window.
The proprietor reached for a book that lay above his desk.
"I-I did not know," he said, hesitatingly.
The Tarantella originated in Ischia, but Sorrento and Capri have the best dancers.
The young man greeted him with a smile and a bow.
May I express a hope that you are pleased with my beautiful country?"
Beth and Patsy jumped up with alacrity, but Louise pleaded that she had several more letters to write; so the others left her and passed the rest of the forenoon in rummaging among the quaint shops of Sorrento, staring at the statue of Tasso, and enjoying the street scenes so vividly opposed to those of America.
"Oh. Perhaps you know little about the nobility of your country."
The dances were unique and graceful, being executed by a troup of laughing peasants dressed in native costume, who seemed very proud of their accomplishment and anxious to please the throng of tourists present.
Uncle john took the card and read:
"Yes," replied Uncle john.
"You've been deceived in your Italian friend, Louise.
"Ferralti-Count Ferralti.
The Count twirled his small and slender moustaches in a way that Patsy thought affected, and said in excellent English:
"Surely, mr Merrick.
He put on his glasses and looked again.
Moreover, Louise being in love with that young Weldon her mother so strongly objected to, she would not be likely to care much for this Italian fellow, and mrs Merrick had enjoined him to keep her daughter's mind from dwelling on her "entanglement."
"Allow me to offer you my card."
"It has even been thoughtless enough to adopt me."
Let me see," he turned to his list of guests, who register by card and not in a book, and continued: "Ah, yes; he has given his name as Ferralti, but added no title.
"Are you sure, Uncle john?"
That gave him an excuse to talk with the man, who spoke very good English and was exceedingly courteous to his guests-especially when they were American.
Then he remarked that the eruption of Vesuvius was waning and the trouble nearly over for this time.
The Count clung to Louise's side, but also tried to make himself agreeable to her cousins.
They come assorted, I suppose."
"Find me, if you can, a Count Ferralti in the list."
He is neither a count nor of noble family, although I suppose when you met him in New York he had an object in posing as a titled aristocrat."
"It delights me to meet mr Merrick and the young ladies.
He was glad that he had not suspected the young man unjustly.
"The gentleman arrived last evening, and I had not yet learned his name.
"Oh, well, my dear," he said to her, "you must act as you see fit.
I know little of the nobility!" answered Floriano, indignantly.
He joined his nieces, who were all busily engaged in writing letters home, and remarked, casually:
"I'm told it's a proper place to buy silk stockings and inlaid wood work.
CHAPTER nine
"Quite sure, my dear.
A count, did you say?"
"Yet you say you don't know the Ferralti family."
He carefully placed the card in his pocket book.
Guilty and baffled antagonists
Full of ardent affection and gratitude
His mood was one of pure exaltation
He poured bitter and biting ridicule on his discomfited opponents
Fastidious correctness of form
High and undiscouraged hope
So the bee spread his shining wings and flew away to do as he was bidden; but before he was out of sight a greedy swallow made a snatch at him, and to the great grief of the princess her messenger was eaten up then and there.
At last, when they were quite weary, the princess cried out suddenly that nothing would content her but to bathe in the marble pool, which certainly did look very inviting; and they all went gaily to this new amusement.
'Ask some proof, sweetheart,' said he.
They even sprang into the water and tried to dive after her, but in vain; they only floated like corks in the enchanted pool, and could not keep under water for a second.
'Loveliest of maidens,' he stammered, bowing low before her, 'let me gaze into your dear eyes, and read in them that you will no longer refuse my love, but will make me the happiest being the sun shines upon.'
Have patience for a little, and then without fail you shall have your puppets to play with.'
Day by day the princess pulled up some of them, and made experiments with them, conjuring up now this longed for person, and now that, just for the pleasure of seeing them as they appeared; but she really had another purpose in view.
On this particular morning the fancy took them to wander off again into the wood.
To the right and left of the waterfall opened out a wonderful grotto, its walls and arches glittering with many coloured rock crystals, while in every niche were spread out strange fruits and sweetmeats, the very sight of which made the princess long to taste them.
He skipped along among the turnips as nimble as a grasshopper, and had soon counted them all; but, to be quite certain that he had made no mistake, he thought he would just run over them again.
Under his care all the crops flourished exceedingly, but the master proved to be wasteful and ungrateful, and Rubezahl soon left him, and went to be shepherd to his next neighbour.
So saying he would have drawn aside her veil; but the princess only held it more closely about her.
My heart answers to your tenderness, and yet I am fearful.
'Dear queen of my heart,' answered he, 'I pray you to forgive my carelessness.
Now Prince Ratibor was still spending his life in wandering about the woods, and not even the beauty of the spring could soothe his grief.
Thereupon he stamped three times upon the earth, and the magic palace, with all its treasures, vanished away into the nothingness out of which he had called it; and the gnome fled once more to the depths of his underground kingdom.
Greatly as I desire your love, I do not ask a sacrifice.'
So saying the gnome took himself off.
With this he left her, and the princess, without an instant's delay, opened the basket, and touching a turnip, cried eagerly: 'Brunhilda, my dear Brunhilda! come to me quickly!' And sure enough there was Brunhilda, joyfully hugging and kissing her beloved princess, and chattering as gaily as in the old days.
'Sweetest and fairest of damsels,' cried the gnome, 'do not be angry; everything that is in my power I will do-but do not ask the impossible. So long as the sap was fresh in the roots the magic staff could keep them in the forms you desired, but as the sap dried up they withered away.
'Why tears, beloved one?' cried the gnome anxiously; 'every tear of yours falls upon my heart like a drop of molten gold.
He searched every thicket and path, he looked behind every tree, and gazed into every pond, but without success; then he hastened into the palace and rushed from room to room, peering into every hole and corner and calling her by name; but only echo answered in the marble halls-there was neither voice nor footstep.
'Flutter from tree to tree, chattering bird,' said she, 'till you come to Ratibor, my love.
'Then give me just one proof of your goodness.
And now all went cheerfully in the castle.
He felt very well satisfied with himself as he crossed the mossy lawn to the place where he had left her; but, alas! she was no longer there.
When he understood this he flew down again in a great hurry into the thicket, and took the form of a handsome young man-that was the best way-and he fell in love with the girl then and there.
Rubezahl
In these magnificent garments she went to meet the gnome upon the great terrace.
Thereupon he caught up a great stone, and would have hurled it at the magpie, if it had not at that moment uttered the name of the princess.
They shall provide me with bride maidens too.
'Your constancy has overcome me,' she said; 'I can no longer oppose your wishes.
This time she changed the turnip into a magpie.
The great green patch in the garden will prove you with a more lively company.'
'Malicious Sprite,' she cried, 'why do you begrudge me my playmates --the greatest delight of my lonely hours?
My wedding feast must not lack guests.
Go! count the turnips in yonder meadow.
But the princess felt no such happiness; in spite of all the magic delights around her she was sad, though she tried to seem content for fear of displeasing the gnome.
Who is there I can find for her to talk to?'
While all this was happening, Prince Ratibor was hurrying away with his prize to a place of safety.
'Hop, little cricket, to Ratibor, and chirp in his ear that I love him only, but that I am held captive by the gnome in his palace under the mountains.'
But the magpie knew no more than the lesson he had learnt, so he soon fluttered away; while the prince hurried back to his castle to gather together a troop of horsemen, full of courage for whatever might befall.
A wife cannot always charm, and though YOU will never alter, the beauty of mortals is as a flower that fades.
He passed through the gardens which for him had lost their charm, and the sight of the princess's footprints on the golden sand of the pathway renewed his grief.
He imagined that she was too young and inexperienced to care for him; but that was a mistake, for the truth was that another image already filled her heart.
This time, to his great annoyance, the number was different; so he reckoned them for the third time, but now the number was not the same as either of the previous ones!
She left off treating the gnome with coldness and indifference; indeed, there was a look in her eyes which encouraged him to hope that she might some day return his love, and the idea pleased him mightily.
'Where have you hidden the basket?
The next day, as soon as the sun rose, she made her appearance decked as a bride, in the wonderful robes and jewels which the fond gnome had prepared for her.
All his gloom and misery vanished in a moment, and he anxiously questioned the welcome messenger as to the fate of the princess.
These two unlucky ventures did not prevent the princess from trying once more.
'You are trying to tease me,' she cried, as soon as she saw him.
All was lonely, empty, sorrowful; and the forsaken gnome resolved that he would have no more dealings with such false creatures as he had found men to be.
After that, by the power of the wonderful wand she summoned a cricket, and taught him this greeting:
Furiously did the enraged gnome fling two great clouds together, and hurl a thunderbolt after the flying maiden, splintering the rocky barriers which had stood a thousand years.
I promised more than I could perform.
One day she changed a tiny turnip into a bee, and sent him off to bring her some news of her lover.
Almost before the gnome had finished, the disappointed princess turned away, and marched off to her own apartments, without deigning to answer him.
Thus fostered they grew and flourished marvellously, and promised a goodly crop.
She had a fine fresh turnip hidden close at hand, which she changed into a spirited horse, all saddled and bridled, and, springing upon its back, she galloped away over hill and dale till she reached the Thorny Valley, and flung herself into the arms of her beloved Prince Ratibor.
Take this little many coloured wand, and with a touch give to each root the form you desire to see.'
Who is it?
"Well then, sell it," said he.
"What is it?
"What's to be done?
With what?
See!
Didn't he write in those idiotic broadsheets that anyone, 'whoever it might be, should be dragged to the lockup by his hair'? (How silly!) 'And honor and glory to whoever captures him,' he says.
The Emperor had written to Count Rostopchin as follows:
"He's cook to some prince."
How is it that we are staying on?"
The clerk glanced round, evidently hoping that his joke would be appreciated.
"It's as the old men have decided-there's too many of you giving orders."
"That's it-not against it!
What do you want with him?..." asked Karp.
For himself personally Nicholas could not wish for a better wife: by marrying her he would make the countess his mother happy, would be able to put his father's affairs in order, and would even-he felt it-ensure Princess Mary's happiness.
What decision?
It's heavy, lads-solid books."
And his plighted word?
But Sonya?
"Why, we've not done any harm!
"Where's the Elder?" he cried furiously.
"Well, is she pretty?
"We've been told to keep order, and that no one is to leave their homes or take away a single grain, and that's all about it!" cried another.
I don't like that way of doing things.
Traitors!" cried Rostov unmeaningly in a voice not his own, gripping Karp by the collar.
Good bye, Princess.
"It's wrong, lads!"
The two tall peasants had their say.
Dron was of this opinion, but as soon as he expressed it Karp and others attacked their ex Elder.
Mutiny!...
"The Elder?
"The Elder....
We did it just out of foolishness.
"Was it not fate that brought him to Bogucharovo, and at that very moment?" thought Princess Mary.
"You know it has cost money!
"What decision have you been pleased to come to?" said he.
"Arguing?
Let it all be done properly, according to rule.
"There!
Old dotard!..." cried he.
It's all nonsense...
"We don't riot, we're following the orders," declared Karp, and at that moment several voices began speaking together.
Look here, put it under the bast matting and cover it with hay-that's the way!"
"Don't catch up against it!
But on glancing at Rostov's face Ilyin stopped short.
"Decision?
The night was so dark that King Charming never found out the difference, but made to Troutina all the tender speeches that he meant for Florina, offering her his crown and his heart, and ending by placing his own ring on her finger, as a pledge of eternal fidelity.
I am King Charming, condemned to be a bird for seven years, because I will not renounce you."
The king began to weep in company, and to talk to her of his dear wife-she did the same of her dear husband: in fact they talked so much, that they talked their sorrow quite away.
I will rather suppose that she is maligned by her stepmother and by Troutina, who is so ugly herself that no wonder she bears envy towards the fairest woman in the world."
So they entered together into the fairy palace, and she told her godmother privately how all had happened, and how she had won King Charming, begging the fairy to pacify him when he found out his mistake.
Your troubles are not without remedy."
The king said, her stepmother might do with her exactly what she pleased.
Meantime the king was left waiting in a chamber with diamond walls, so thin and transparent, that through them he saw Troutina and Soussio conversing together.
"Ah, would I had been sent here before I saw this amiable prince, who was so kind to me!
Nobody would have her.
A powerful and wealthy king, having lost his wife, was so inconsolable, that he shut himself up for eight entire days, in a little cabinet, where he spent his time in knocking his head against the wall, until the courtiers were afraid he would kill himself!
Florina, doubting no more her lover's loss, fell down in a swoon, and the queen immediately went to tell her father that she was mad for love, and must be watched closely lest she should in some way disgrace herself.
How great was his despair, when Soussio said to him in a commanding voice, "King Charming, behold the princess Troutina, to whom you have promised your faith: marry her immediately!"
"If it were Florina, now," said the kings, or the kings' ambassadors, "we should be most happy to sign the contract."
Rumours went about that the place was haunted, and no one would go near the spot.
"You have spoken my name.
He perched on the window sill, and she sat at the window, and they were singing together a duet, which the queen heard outside.
The mother and daughter finished talking so late that it was midnight before they reached Florina's apartment.
King Charming took no heed, but conversed with Florina for three hours without stopping.
They conversed till daybreak, and promised faithfully every night to meet again thus.
"How happy I am to have found her again, and found her so engaging and so sweet." And as he wished to pay her all the attentions that a lover delights in, he flew to his own kingdom, entered his palace by an open window, and sought for some diamond ear rings, which he brought back in his beak, and, when night came, offered them to Florina.
Immediately the king's figure changed.
One day the king observed that both girls were now old enough to be married, and that he intended to choose for one of them the first prince who visited his court.
The king noticed her more and more-he spoke less and less of the departed queen; by and by he ceased to speak of her at all.
What should I do if I saw his poor feathers scattered on the ground, and knew that he was no more?" So she grieved all day long.
But soon she began stroking his beautiful plumage, and caressing him.
"Florina!" cried he, enchanted.
"You cannot," said Soussio; and, touching him, he found himself fixed as if his feet were glued to the pavement.
"A king, who loves you, and will never love any other."
Civil as this answer was, it irritated the queen and her daughter exceedingly; and when, since in all his audiences with their majesties he never saw Florina, he at last inquired where the younger princess was, the queen answered fiercely, that she was shut up in prison, and would remain there till Troutina was married.
"Be it so," said the queen; "and as my daughter is older, handsomer, and more amiable than yours, she shall have the first choice." The king disputed nothing; indeed, he never did-the queen ruled him in all things.
He also made her agree to fly with him next night, in a chariot drawn by winged frogs, of which a great magician, one of his friends, had made him a present.
At last there presented herself before him a lady, covered from head to foot in a long crape veil, who wept and sobbed so much that the king noticed her.
Next night, it was broad moonlight, and then he saw clearly the figure of a young girl, weeping sore, and knew that it was his beloved Florina.
King Charming met her, received her in his arms, and vowed to love her for ever.
But as he was not likely to wish to sail about for ever, he at last proposed that they should descend to earth, and be married.
When she paused in her lamentations, "Adorable princess," said he, "why do you mourn?
Her Blue Bird visited her every night, and they loved one another dearly.
She came to visit me with your diamonds on her neck, and your ring on her finger, wearing the golden crown and royal mantle which you had given her, while I was laden with iron chains."
Then he lifted her into the fairy chariot, and they sailed about in the air for some hours.
Flying from tree to tree, he sang melancholy songs about her and himself, and wished he were dead many a time.
"But, madam, is there not another princess called Florina?"
He rose, and made her a profound reverence, paying her besides so many elegant compliments, that the queen became very much displeased.
The beautiful Blue Bird, hid in a hollow tree, spent the hours in thinking of his princess.
"Who are you, charming bird?"
Meantime King Charming eagerly awaited her re appearance, but he saw her no more; and by the queen's orders, every one about him spoke all the evil they could of poor Florina, but he refused to believe one word.
Next night Troutina, thickly veiled, quitted the palace by a secret door.
"My child," replied the godmother, "that is more easily said than done; he is too deeply in love with Florina."
At length, Soussio, quite worn out, said, "Choose seven years of penitence and punishment, or marry my goddaughter."
"Then I am sorry I cannot accept the honour," replied King Charming. "A monarch is surely at liberty to form his own engagements.
Soussio employed persuasions, threats, promises, entreaties.
"I have been wickedly deceived!" cried the king; "come, my winged frogs, we will depart immediately."
He stood like a man in a dream: "What! am I betrayed?
The fairy Soussio sent back Troutina to her mother, who was furious. "Florina shall repent having pleased King Charming!" cried she; and dressing her own daughter in rich garments, with a gold crown on her head, and King Charming's ring on her finger, she took her to the tower.
Thus, for two years, Florina spent her time, and never once regretted her captivity.
So saying he flew up to the window, and at first frightened the princess very much, for she could not understand such an extraordinary thing as a bird who talked in words like a man, yet kept still the piping voice of a nightingale.
Indeed, she was altogether ugly and disagreeable; and when contrasted with Florina, the difference between the two made the mother so envious, that she and Troutina spared no pains to make the princess's life unhappy, and to speak ill of her to her father.
"No, Troutina."
The end was, that he courted the inconsolable lady in the black veil, and married her.
She told him that she did not come, like the rest, to console him, but rather to encourage his grief.
"And for what reason?" asked King Charming.
Some time after, news came that King Charming would shortly arrive, and that he was as charming as his name.
When he was alone, he sent for one of his attendants, whom he trusted very much, and begged him to gain information from some court lady about the princess Florina.
But, though he looked only a blue bird, the king was his own natural self still, and remembered all his misfortunes, and did not cease to lament for his beautiful Florina.
"Do you think me a fool?" cried the king; "I have promised her nothing.
"Who speaks to me so gently?" asked she.
This scheme succeeded so well, that Florina was persuaded to promise she would speak to him for a few moments next night, from a small window at the bottom of the tower. But the faithless lady in waiting betrayed her to the queen, who locked her up in her chamber, and determined to send her own daughter to the window instead.
Each arrow was a diamond, a finger's length, and the chain was of pearls, each weighing a pound. When the young king received this very handsome present, he was much perplexed, until they told him it came from the princess whom he had lately seen, and who requested him to be her knight.
She herself had lost the best of husbands, and here she began to weep so profusely, that it was a wonder her eyes were not melted out of her head.
They pointed to the corner where Florina was hidden, and she came out, blushing so much, that the young king was dazzled with her beauty, in spite of her shabby gown.
"Florina, your sister is come to see and bring you marriage presents, for she is now the wife of King Charming."
Then, lifting up her veil, she showed lovely blue eyes and dark eyelashes.
She is-"
"It was to me you gave this ring; to me you spoke at the window."
But we will find her out and punish her."
The malicious queen tried with all her might to get Troutina married, but in vain.
When the princess recovered from her swoon, she began to weep, and wept all night long, sitting at the open window of her tower.
"I choose," answered the king; "and I will not marry your goddaughter."
"You may turn me into stone!" exclaimed he; "but I will love no one, except Florina."
Has this enemy to my peace carried away my dear Florina?"
"Am not I she?" said Troutina.
"Ah! do not deceive me.
"Then fly out of this window, in the shape of a Blue Bird."
It is to prevent my meeting him again, that the queen treats me so cruelly.
He began to speak in a singing voice, and then uttering a doleful cry, fled away as far as possible from the fatal palace of Soussio.
I know you have married Troutina.
Troutina agreed with all her heart, but wished that the ceremony should be performed at her godmother's, the fairy Soussio.
And though she saw nobody and he lived in the hollow of a tree, they always found plenty to say to one another.
Meantime the princess could not sleep for thinking of her Blue Bird. "Suppose sportsmen should shoot him, or eagles and kites attack him, and vultures devour him just as if he were a mere bird and not a great king?
"I will respect you as much as a fairy deserves to be respected, if you will only give me back my princess."
They accordingly placed stuffed mattresses over every wall, and allowed all his subjects, who desired, to pay him a visit, trusting that something would be said to alleviate his grief.
But neither grave nor lively discourse made any impression upon him; he scarcely heard what was spoken.
"I do not know; and if I did, I would not tell you," replied the queen, more angrily than ever; so that King Charming quitted her presence as soon as ever he could.
He could not make out whose voice it was, or whence it came, but it somehow reminded him of his dearest Florina, whom he had never ceased to love.
"Tell me your troubles, and I may be able to soften them."
The valet promised; and then Florina broke her fourth egg, out of which came a pie composed of birds, which, though they had been plucked, baked, and made ready for the table, sang as beautifully as birds that are alive.
At sight of the ornaments he turned pale, remembering those he had given to Florina.
The magician, who was King Charming's friend, went to the fairy Soussio, whom he knew, for they had quarrelled and made it up again, as fairies and magicians do, many times within the last five or six hundred years.
Next day, Florina was in great disquietude.
"You!" cried the servants mocking.
"I fear," replied his friend, "that the thing is difficult.
Then she departed by night, and alone, to go over the world in search of her Blue Bird.
Troutina, charmed with this marvellous novelty, bought it at the same price as the rest, adding generously a small piece of gold.
"Blue Bird, Blue Bird, Come to my side."
The spy listened and heard all their conversation, very much astonished that a princess could be so fond of a mere bird.
Meantime, from the window the Blue Bird, who had the eye of a lynx, sang aloud, "Beware, Florina!"
They arrived shortly; he more charming and she more repulsive than ever.
"Does he so?" said the queen, now comprehending all.
When Troutina went to walk in the palace garden, Florina awaited her in a green alley, and made the mice gallop, and the ladies and gentlemen bow, till the princess was delighted, and ready to buy the curiosity at any price.
But at this moment appeared the friendly enchanter, with a fairy still greater than Soussio, the one who had given Florina the four eggs. They declared that their united power was stronger than Soussio's, and that the lovers should be married without further delay.
"Good mother," replied the queen, "I have too many troubles to be pleasant company for anybody."
"My pretty maiden, what are you doing here all alone?"
But on the third night, hearing a noise, she wakened, and saw by the light of the moon the Princess Florina sitting at the window with a beautiful Blue Bird, who warbled in her ear and touched her gently with his beak.
"Am I likely to do this?
Florina, greatly comforted, put the eggs in her sack, and turned her steps towards the country of King Charming.
Despairing of ever climbing it, she sank down at the foot, prepared to die there, when she bethought herself of the eggs.
But vain were her sobs and complainings; the king had taken opium to lull his grief; he slept soundly all night long.
One day, stopping beside a fountain, she let her hair fall loose, and dipped her weary feet in the cool water, when an old woman, bent, and leaning on a stick, came by.
"Then do as you will with me!" cried the king.
But no one regarded her.
Now the king, when he was a Blue Bird, had informed Florina about this Chamber of Echoes, where every word spoken could be heard in his own chamber; she could not have chosen a better way of reproaching him for his infidelity.
If she descends upon our mirror her first footstep will crack it into a thousand pieces."
The Blue Bird flew to the window sill, and they lavished on one another a hundred caresses, and talked together till dawn.
She walked eight days and nights without stopping, and then came to a mountain made entirely of ivory, and nearly perpendicular.
They had need, for the charm of the mirror was that each saw herself therein, not as she was, but as she wished to be; and the grimaces they made were enough to cause a person to die of laughter.
Besides, he is going to morrow to the temple with the Princess Troutina, whom he has at last agreed to marry."
The king her father died, and the people, who knew she was his heir, began to inquire, with one accord, where was the Princess Florina?
Meanwhile the Queen Florina, in a peasant's dress, with a straw hat on her head, and a canvas sack on her shoulder, began her journey: sometimes on horseback, sometimes on foot, sometimes by sea, sometimes by land, wandering; evermore after her beloved King Charming.
"Innocent, indeed!" cried the queen, and began to search the room.
When the princess learnt this she was in great grief.
Then he rose up, dressed himself hastily, and went in search of her.
They assailed the palace in crowds, demanding her for their sovereign.
Out of it came a chariot of polished steel, inlaid with gold, drawn by six green mice, the coachman being a rose coloured rat, and the postilion a grey one.
Not one of them had ever gained the top of the mountain; and when they saw Florina there, they all burst into angry outcries, "How has this woman got up the hill?
When this news reached Troutina, she ran to the Chamber of Echoes, and there beheld her beautiful rival, whom she had so cruelly afflicted. But the moment she opened her mouth to speak, her wicked tongue was silenced for ever; for the magician turned her into a trout, which he flung out of the window into the stream that flowed through the castle garden.
"Ah, that is too true!" cried the king, sadly, "People only judge by the outside."
"Let me see," said she, "if the fairy has deceived me or not." So she broke one, and inside it were little hooks of gold, which she fitted on her feet and hands, and by means of which she climbed the mountain with ease.
"These bracelets are worth half my kingdom; I did not think there had been more than one pair in the world."
At last a sudden change took place in her fortunes.
The king recognised the voice of his best friend: whereupon the magician took him out of the hollow tree, healed his wounds, and heard all his history.
"As you will; your bargains are cheap enough," replied Troutina, laughing: and when she laughed she showed teeth like the tusks of a wild boar.
"I have leisure enough: I may just as well spend some of it in adorning myself, instead of bemoaning my misfortune-innocent as I am."
The riot became so dangerous that Troutina and her mother fled away to the fairy Soussio.
The exceeding care that was taken of her, and her longing to live in order to see again her Blue Bird, restored Florina's health, and gave her strength to call a council and arrange all the affairs of her kingdom.
She dared not open the window, though she heard continually his wings fluttering round it.
Then the populace stormed the tower, rescued the sick and almost dying princess, and crowned her as their queen.
"Why can I not return and govern it as before?"
Could he have really heard her, and been indifferent to her sorrow; or had he not heard her at all? She determined to buy another night in the Chamber of Echoes; but she had no more jewels to tempt Troutina; so she broke the third egg.
Arrived at the summit she found new difficulties; for the valley below was one large smooth mirror, in which sixty thousand women stood admiring themselves.
She received him civilly, and asked him what he wanted. He tried to make a bargain with her but could effect nothing, unless King Charming would consent to marry Troutina.
"Blue Bird, Blue Bird, Come to my side."
The queen had caused sharp knives to be hung outside the hollow of the tree: he flew against them and cut his feet and wings, till he dropped down, covered with blood.
"Blue Bird, Blue Bird, Come to my side."
"I am a poor peasant girl," said Florina.
But he would not.
The little woman listened attentively, and then, in the twinkling of an eye, became, instead of an old woman, a beautiful fairy.
In it she found all King Charming's presents-diamonds, rubies, emeralds, amethysts-in short, jewels without end.
How her heart beat as she entered, and begged to see the king!
"I see that you are in league with demons; but your father shall judge you;" and, very much frightened, the queen left her, and went to hold counsel with Troutina as to what was to be done.
"Some one has given them to you that you might join in treason against your father and the kingdom.
Do not afflict yourself; happiness will yet be yours. Take these four eggs, and whenever you are in trouble, break them, and see what ensues." So saying, the fairy vanished.
They agreed to put in Florina's chamber a waiting maid, who should watch her from morning till night.
Then the poor deceived princess opened her little window, and sang her usual song-
The obedient pigeons did so, flying day and night till they reached the city gates; when the queen dismissed them with a sweet kiss, which was worth more than her crown.
Who would obey a Blue Bird?"
This family likeness may be traced in the fairy tales of all countries.
"Why, then, do you dress yourself so fine, and adorn your chamber with flowers?"
The third day, one of the palace valets, passing her by, said, "You stupid peasant girl, it is well the king takes opium every night, or you would disturb him by that terrible sobbing of yours."
"You see, madam," said Florina, "even the spirits of the air take pity upon me."
Florina obeyed, and told her whole history, and how she was travelling over the world in search of the Blue Bird.
I, a poor princess, kept in captivity for two years, with you as my gaoler?"
What will he do? What shall I do?" And she melted into floods of tears.
Under these circumstances the magician thought it best to agree with Soussio that King Charming should be restored to his kingdom and his natural shape for six months, on condition that Troutina should remain in his palace, and that he should try to like her and marry her.
Inside the carriage sat little puppets, who behaved themselves just like live ladies and gentlemen.
If not, he was to become again a Blue Bird.
"What have I done to thee, that thou shouldst forget me and marry Troutina?" sobbed she; and the king, who this time was wide awake, heard her.
Next night it happened the same, till they began to hope that the waiting maid, who seemed to enjoy her sleep so much, would sleep every night to come.
They sent the girl back, told her to express no curiosity, but to feign sleep, and to go to bed earlier than usual.
"These are pretty trinkets," said Troutina; and going up to the king she asked him what he thought of them.
For more than a month she waited; but the serving maid watched her night and day.
He persuaded King Charming that, overcome with fear and cruel treatment, Florina must have betrayed him.
He had seen the queen and Troutina, and though he could not defend his princess, he refused to leave her.
Meantime Florina, overcome with grief, fell dangerously sick, and in her sickness she kept singing, day and night, her little song-
Again Florina exacted permission to pass the night in the Chamber of Echoes; and again the king, undisturbed by her lamentation, slept without waking till dawn.
"Little peasant girl, your eyes are not half good enough to see the king.
Her wonderful beauty and her splendid jewels startled them.
When all the palace were asleep, Florina for the last time, hoping King Charming would hear her, called upon him with all sorts of tender expressions, reminding him of their former vows, and their two years of happiness.
"Oh, Florina, come to my help!" sighed he, "But she is dead, I know, and I will die also."
For what was the good of all their love when they were still in the power of the fairy Soussio?
"Now, my pretty pigeons," said she, "will you convey me to the palace of King Charming?"
"Incomparable Florina, the king you seek is no longer a bird; my sister Soussio has restored him to his proper shape, and he reigns in his own kingdom.
As for King Charming and Queen Florina, delivered out of all their sorrows, and given to one another, their joy was quite inexpressible, and it lasted to the end of their lives.
But no Blue Bird appeared.
The enchanter found this bride so ugly that he could not advise.
"Then if you will promise to night to keep the opium cup out of his way, these pearls and diamonds," and she took a handful of them from her sack, "shall assuredly be yours."
"I found them," replied Florina, and refused to answer more.
The two rushed upon her like furies.
At last, overcome with weariness, the girl fell asleep, and then Florina opened her little window, and sang in a low voice-
Knitting her brows, Troutina exclaimed, "What creature is that who dares approach so near my golden throne?"
When day came she related all to the queen and Troutina, who concluded that the bird could be no other than King Charming.
I shall at least be safe there for the five years that are to be endured."
She neither ate nor slept, but rose with the dawn, and pushed her way through the guards to the temple, where she saw two thrones, one for King Charming, and the other for Troutina.
"In captivity," repeated the queen.
He was, to all appearance, on the plains where Bincleaves Farm was afterwards established, between what are now called Spring Gardens and the Parsonage House.
For a long time he had ceased to see the smoke.
Homesteads and cottages occupy the place of waste lands.
Sometimes less than a century separates a steppe from a city.
The hovel had but one door, which was like that of a dog kennel; and a window, which was but a hole.
The street began by two houses.
He continued to advance.
CHAPTER three.
At other times, his throat feeling as if it were on fire, he put a little snow in his mouth and sucked it; this for a moment assuaged his thirst, but changed it into fever-a relief which was an aggravation.
The double folding door of massive oak, studded with large nails, was of the kind that leads one to expect that behind it there is a stout armoury of bolts and locks.
His eyes were fixed on the roofs.
Thenceforward the slightest fall would be death; a false step opened for him a tomb.
No answer.
He had arrived somewhere at last.
He was obliged to do without this balance.
Deluges of snow are possible.
The cowardly wind drove against him.
He would soon be amidst living creatures.
It seemed to him that he had left all evil chances behind him. The infant was no longer a burden.
It was little more than four hours since the hooker had sailed from the creek of Portland, leaving the boy on the shore.
Then he adopted in his gait a rocking movement, and the child was soothed and silenced.
He raised the knocker with some difficulty, for his benumbed hands were stumps rather than hands.
He staggered, slipped, recovered himself, took care of the infant, and, gathering the jacket about her, he covered up her head; staggered again, advanced, slipped, then drew himself up.
An iron knocker was attached to it.
He hurried his steps.
That which he lost was not thrown away, but was gained by her. He found out that the poor infant enjoyed the comfort which was to her the renewal of life.
This was, perhaps, the moment when the distracted hooker was going to pieces in the battle of the breakers.
No smoke arose from them now.
He advanced, reeling at every step, as if on a spring board, and accomplishing, without spectators, miracles of equilibrium.
He had not strength to rise even to his knees.
He saw that they were all asleep, and did not care to get up.
This little infant was the drop causing the cup of distress to overflow.
He travelled under this north wind, still towards the east, over wide surfaces of snow.
He picked up a pebble from the snow, and knocked against the low door.
He came to the outskirts of a town-an open street.
In those two houses neither candle nor lamp was to be seen; nor in the whole street; nor in the whole town, so far as eye could reach.
He must not slip.
The boy did not hesitate.
He almost ran.
He approached the great mansion.
Then he found the surface a sheet of ice.
He could not afford to fall.
He struck again, and two knocks.
The walls were of mud, the roof was of straw, and there was more thatch than wall.
It was also closed.
Two or three times the little infant cried.
He walked on, working away the snow with his knees.
Or he had, perhaps, made a mistake, and it was possible that neither town nor village existed in the direction in which he was travelling.
He had tripped upon the slopes of precipices, and had recovered himself; he had stumbled into holes, and had got out again.
He felt the approach of another danger.
Let us repeat that he was, perhaps, followed on this path of pain by eyes unsleeping in the distances of the shadows-the eyes of the mother and the eyes of God.
Then he turned to the hovel.
The plain was unequal.
He became colder, but the infant was warmer.
He was overcome by fatigue, and the weight of the darkness would, as with the dead woman, have held him to the ground, and the ice glued him alive to the earth.
Doubting, he yet persevered.
There glowed within him that sudden warmth-security; that out of which he was emerging was over; thenceforward there would no longer be night, nor winter, nor tempest.
No voice was heard; no step moved; no candle was lighted.
At that period bars to streets were falling into disuse.
Such indications are soon effaced in the night; besides, it was past the hour when fires are put out.
He was now almost naked.
The little girl's lukewarm breath, playing on his face, warmed it for a moment, then lingered, and froze in his hair, stiffening it into icicles.
This was one.
The few rags which remained to him, hardened by the frost, were sharp as glass, and cut his skin.
There were the chimneys of which he had seen the smoke.
The storm had become shapeless from its violence.
A BURDEN MAKES A ROUGH ROAD ROUGHER.
There was no answer.
In the declivities into which it sloped the snow, driven by the wind into the dips of the ground, was so deep, in comparison with a child so small, that it almost engulfed him, and he had to struggle through it half buried.
He felt the ineffable encouragement of hope.
Roofs-dwellings-shelter!
He raised himself on tiptoe, and knocked with his pebble against the pane too softly to break the glass, but loud enough to be heard.
The reverse of a silhouette-a city painted in white on a black horizon, something like what we call nowadays a negative proof.
The paroxysm scourged the shore at the same time that it uptore the depths of ocean.
Suddenly, a lull having occurred in the icy blast which was blinding him, he perceived, at a short distance in front of him, a cluster of gables and of chimneys shown in relief by the snow.
At the side an inhabited pig sty told that the house was also inhabited.
At length, then, he was near mankind.
The little creature whom he carried made his progress fearfully difficult. She was not only a burden, which his weariness and exhaustion made excessive, but was also an embarrassment.
He was not long before he reached the houses.
He knocked a third time.
No movement was heard in the house.
He knocked once.
Ancient Weymouth did not present, like the present one, an irreproachable rectangular quay, with an inn and a statue in honour of George the third.
That no inhabitant should have opened a lattice may appear surprising. Nevertheless that silence is in a great measure to be explained.
To the east great inclined planes of snow marked out the wide slopes of Radipole.
Three o'clock tolled slowly behind him from the old belfry of saint Nicholas.
This blind confidence set him onwards again.
The coldness of men is intentional.
He set to knocking at the doors again: he had no strength left to call or shout.
No one answered. Nothing makes the heart so like a stone as being warm between sheets. The noise and the shaking had at length awakened the infant.
Here and there were high carved gables and shop fronts.
It is a declaration of indifference.
These honours, however, were deserved.
Hence arise entanglements.
What was to become of him?
CHAPTER four.
Mysterious, diffused existences amalgamate themselves with life on that border of death, which sleep is. Those larvae and souls mingle in the air.
The boy went to the bridge, which at that period was a covered timber structure.
The houses ended there.
Nothing is so freezing in certain situations as the voice of the hour.
The uneasiness of nocturnal fear, increased by the spectral houses, increased the weight of the sad burden under which he was struggling.
Should he continue this journey?
What a man feels a child feels still more.
What was he to do between those two silences-the mute plain and the deaf city?
The surrounding chimera, in which he suspects a reality, impedes him.
One voice answered.
Irresistible summons of duty!
It was Weymouth which he had just entered.
Dreams, those clouds, interpose their folds and their transparencies over that star, the mind.
That of Time.
However, the little infant leaned her head against his shoulder, and fell asleep again.
The doors were all carefully double locked, The windows were covered by their shutters, as the eyes by their lids.
It is probable that he did not understand them.
There is something of the effect of a forest in the nocturnal diffusion of dreams.
There is the anchor of mercy.
Wretched fare!
It was the bridge which did the work.
The child felt the coldness of men more terribly than the coldness of night.
The traveller who entered the tavern, now replaced by the hotel, instead of paying royally his twenty five francs for a fried sole and a bottle of wine, had to suffer the humiliation of eating a pennyworth of soup made of fish-which soup, by the bye, was very good.
This resulted from the fact that George the third. had not yet been born.
He felt a tightening on his sinking heart which he had not known on the open plains.
Even he who sleeps not feels a medium press upon him full of sinister life.
He perceived the sea to the right, and scarcely anything more of the town to his left.
Here was the country again.
Now Melcombe Regis is a parish of Weymouth.
It was a piece of waste land not built upon-probably the spot where Chesterfield Place now stands.
His bare feet had a moment's comfort as they crossed them. Having passed over the bridge, he was in Melcombe Regis.
At Melcombe Regis, as at Weymouth, no one was stirring.
All at once he heard a menace.
The bridge opened on a rather fine street called saint Thomas's Street.
Weymouth, a hamlet, was then the suburb of Melcombe Regis, a city and port.
This passage led him to a water brink, where there was a roughly built quay with a parapet, and to the right he made out a bridge.
He knew this because he felt her suck his cheek.
The deserted child, carrying the foundling, passed through the first street, then the second, then the third.
Weymouth then was not the respectable and fine Weymouth of to day.
At intervals he knocked at the doors.
He whom all supports were failing felt that he was himself a basis of support.
Why not erect statues to him?
The waking man, wending his way amidst the sleep phantoms of others, unconsciously pushes back passing shadows, has, or imagines that he has, a vague fear of adverse contact with the invisible, and feels at every moment the obscure pressure of a hostile encounter which immediately dissolves.
The village has absorbed the city.
George the third., having lost in his old age the intellect he had never possessed in his youth, was not responsible for the calamities of his reign.
Every precaution had been taken to avoid being roused by disagreeable surprises.
Sleep has gloomy associates beyond this life: the decomposed thoughts of the sleepers float above them in a mist which is both of death and of life, and combine with the possible, which has also, perhaps, the power of thought, as it floats in space.
The hour, the strokes of which he had just counted, had been another blow.
He was about to turn and wander long, perhaps, in the intersections of the Scrambridge lanes, where there were then more cultivated plots than dwellings, more thorn hedges than houses; but fortunately he struck into a passage which exists to this day near Trinity schools.
ANOTHER FORM OF DESERT.
She did not cry, believing him her mother.
Should he advance and re-enter the solitudes? Should he return and re-enter the streets?
All its lethargies mingle their nightmares, its slumbers are a crowd, and from its human bodies lying prone there arises a vapour of dreams.
It is Eternity saying, "What does it matter to me?"
This was the summit of misery.
This is what is called being afraid without reason.
For the same reason they had not yet designed on the slope of the green hill towards the east, fashioned flat on the soil by cutting away the turf and leaving the bare chalk to the view, the white horse, an acre long, bearing the king upon his back, and always turning, in honour of George the third., his tail to the city.
His blows, on which he was expending his last energies, were jerky and without aim; now ceasing altogether for a time, now renewed as if in irritation.
The pitiless desert he had understood; the unrelenting town was too much to bear.
He entered it.
Bridges are strange vehicles of suction, which inhale the population, and sometimes swell one river bank at the expense of its opposite neighbour.
Which of the two refusals should he choose?
People would not even open their windows for fear of inhaling the poison.
The cry continued.
So now I shall not have even the milk!"
A betrothal perchance, perchance a catastrophe.
In my time I have seen dukes eat.
He watched the infant's renewal of life; the completion of the resurrection begun by himself filled his eyes with an ineffable brilliancy.
A few minutes after, both children slept profoundly.
But no I forbid you to answer.
When lighted it still left the children in shadow.
Ursus half opened the door, and said,--
He took it and handed it to the boy.
They don't eat; that's noble.
CHAPTER five
Then he looked at the little infant.
Who speaks of me? Wretched little barefooted clerk of Penniless Parish, I tell you, eat it all up!
Thou art warm at the top and cold at bottom."
The boy, under this menace, began to eat again.
"no"
He made up his mind, and placed one foot on the lowest step.
Ursus turned towards him.
"Where?
"Yes."
The limbs having been rubbed, he next wiped the boy's feet.
The man could not have raised himself on tiptoe.
'tis all one, though!
"She mews relentlessly," said he.
On the boards and nails were rows of glasses, coppers, an alembic, a vessel rather like those used for graining wax, which are called granulators, and a confusion of strange objects of which the child understood nothing, and which were utensils for cooking and chemistry.
Go to sleep."
The hut was furnished with a chest, a stool, and an unlighted lantern which hung from the ceiling.
Well, to day I've made nothing.
There!
It was a dark lantern.
The temperature of the water which it contained had been unequally modified by the proximity of the stove.
"I am hungry."
The child placed his burden carefully on the top of the chest, for fear of awakening and terrifying it.
He went to the broken glass; he filled the hole with a rag; he heaped the stove with peat; he spread out as far as he could the bear skin on the chest; took a large book which he had in a corner, placed it under the skin for a pillow, and laid the head of the sleeping infant on it.
Now that you are warmed and stuffed, you beast, take care of yourself.
The absence of ears, which is the concomitant of a hungry stomach, caused the child to take little heed of these violent epithets, tempered as they were by charity of action involving a contradiction resulting in his benefit.
Have you the plague, you thief?
The child drank, and then went on eating.
"What o'clock is it?"
He unrolled the jacket.
"All the same, I'm hungry and thirsty," he observed.
This smoke was red, and seemed to imply a good fire in the interior.
Horrid place!
Worthless vagabond! in the streets at this hour!
"She is drunk," said Ursus; and he continued, "After this, preach sermons on temperance!"
Come! the little one must have a drink.
Just then a wail, touching and prolonged, arose in the hut.
My friends, get through the storm as best you can.
It charms, it terrifies; who knows which?
"Come! take your supper, creature!
By Jove!
Come, take off those rags, you villain!" and as with one hand, and with feverish haste, he dragged off the boy's rags which tore into shreds, with the other he took down from a nail a man's shirt, and one of those knitted jackets which are up to this day called kiss me quicks.
"Come up!" continued the man.
I made a fire.
Then he turned to the boy.
Now it is over; I enter the nursery; I am going to have in my house the weaning of the future beggardom of England.
The sun is a chimney which sometimes smokes; so does my stove.
Every one is well down here. It's a cursed town, where every one is well!
He had taken a few steps, and was hurrying away.
My stove is no better than the sun
He is so good for nothing that his relations desert him."
However, at the same time that the window closed the door had opened; a step had been let down; the voice which had spoken to the child cried out angrily from the inside of the van,--
"So it is your bundle that wails!
The child having reached the threshold, perceived near the stove a man, tall, smooth, thin and old, dressed in gray, whose head, as he stood, reached the roof.
Corporal, call out the guard! Another bang!
I understand what is right and do what is wrong.
"Yes."
For the moment he was absorbed by two exigencies and by two ecstasies-food and warmth.
The savoury odour was perceptible.
One cannot see clearly.
Innocence is holy ignorance. They slept.
what's your name?
No candle was burning in the caravan, probably from the economy of want. The hut was lighted only by a red tinge, arising from the opening at the top of the stove, in which sparkled a peat fire.
Ursus muttered, "This building is badly joined.
"A league from here."
There must be order in an established city.
Ursus rolled the bear skin over the two children, and tucked it under their feet.
This beggar here browses: browses, a word derived from brute.
From without, a voice, the voice of Ursus, said,--
Come now, do I keep an inn, or do I not?
I have played the flute to the hurricane.
Don't you see it is thirsty?
They drink, however.
The clinking of a chain being undone was heard, and the sound of a man's footsteps, mingled with that of the pads of an animal, died off in the distance.
"How do you mean?
The child answered,--
The man kicked the stool forward and made the little boy sit down, again shoving him by the shoulders; then he pointed with his finger to the porringer which was smoking upon the stove.
It was enough to drive one back: he advanced.
I have worked far into the night.
I was alone.
Come, you pig, stuff yourself!"
I had but one potato, one crust of bread, a mouthful of bacon, and a drop of milk, and I put it to warm.
Hunger overcame astonishment.
The voice continued,--
To those to whom silence has become dreadful a howl is comforting.
"What has it got to do with me?
"I do not know."
The cold comes in by the window pane." A pane had indeed been broken in front, either by a jolt of the caravan or by a stone thrown by some mischievous boy.
He replaced the pot on the stove, took the phial, uncorked it, poured into it all the milk that remained, which was just sufficient to fill it, replaced the sponge and the linen rag over it, and tied it round the neck of the bottle.
The boy obeyed, and stretched himself at full length by the side of the infant.
The child put on the shirt, and the man slipped the knitted jacket over it.
Ursus opened the window at the back and examined the view.
The poor boy devoured rather than ate.
"Who is it then?"
Whilst he was doing this he heard the other child eating, and looked at him sideways.
"It is not your sister?"
Besides, to the partition were attached some boards on brackets and some hooks, from which hung a variety of things.
A nice state to come into a house!
It stays the pulse.
From time to time a ray of morning or a glass of gin, and that is what we call happiness!
Go away."
I can fancy the delight of those at sea.
The infant in his arms, and at the same time on his lap, was sucking rapturously at the bottle, in the happy somnolency of cherubim before their Creator, and infants at their mothers' breast.
Whatever had growled perceived his approach, and became furious.
Who is there?
The gaping jaws appeared.
The little infant drank greedily.
You should see a lord sup.
How am I going to manage to fit three into this caravan?
There is battle, struggle, competition between the fools in the street and myself.
"I am cold."
Perhaps he has the plague.
You shark! how many teeth have you in your jaws?
On the stove were smoking a porringer and a saucepan, containing to all appearance something to eat.
"Well! why do you not enter?"
this crocodile falls upon me at the very moment. He installs himself clean between my food and myself.
What a hurricane!
The head began again,--
"You little scamp!
Seeing the infant drink had made him forget to eat.
"You are hungry; eat!"
You are here to eat, drink, and sleep-eat, or I will kick you out, both of you."
You are going to answer my questions. Whence do you come?"
He looked into the pot.
He passed over the three steps; and having reached the threshold, stopped.
Having done so, he placed the phial on the stove, and exclaimed,--
"Will you drink?"
Who are you? Answer!
I said to myself, 'Good.' I think I am going to eat, and bang!
"Well, if she cries, give her the rest of the milk."
Ice is night.
Ursus addressed him furiously.
The steps were replaced, the door was reclosed.
Kings are the fathers of their people.
"How wet you are!
"Who?"
I open them and find beggars inside. Is this fair?
They try to give me nothing but farthings.
He took down from a shelf, and tied round his waist, a linen belt with a large pocket containing, no doubt, a case of instruments and bottles of restoratives.
"Yes."
"It is a baby that I found."
An infant's head appeared, the mouth open and crying.
"No," replied the child.
There were a few good mouthfuls of milk left in it; he raised it to his lips.
The head replied,--
Ursus seized the pitcher again, and conveyed it to his mouth.
It had a roof-it was a dwelling.
I am given up to the voracity of travellers.
The boy turned towards him.
He drew back.
"What! did you pick her up?"
But no-it is long.
Besides, the laws are violated.
He was half seated on the chest.
The porringer was more than empty; it was cleaned out.
The moment before, while he ate, the expression in his face was satisfaction; now it was gratitude.
"Yes."
His Majesty touched nothing.
From the roof arose a funnel, and out of the funnel smoke.
I shall have for employment, office, and function, to fashion the miscarried fortunes of that colossal prostitute, Misery, to bring to perfection future gallows' birds, and to give young thieves the forms of philosophy.
Dress yourself!"
URSUS, PHILOSOPHER.
Warm yourself as quick as you can," and he shoved him by the shoulders in front of the fire.
Let the populace die, but not my wolf.
Everything in the caravan was indistinct and misty.
You would have been whipped in the public street had you chanced to have been met, and quite right, too.
You're frozen through!
Who are you? whence do you come?"
Guzzle, wolf cub; no, I withdraw that word.
Isn't he a greedy scoundrel?
The child bowed his forehead, drew the sleeping infant closer in his arms, and collected his strength to resume his journey.
"I was abandoned this evening on the sea shore."
I have not pocketed a farthing; and now, to night, beggars drop in.
Why do you cry?"
The child, at once repulsed and invited, remained motionless.
The nakedness of their bodies, embraced each in each, amalgamated with the virginity of their souls.
Just as he was about to drink, his eye fell on the little girl.
He turned the corner of a wall, and, behind in the vast sepulchral light made by the reflection of snow and sea, he saw a thing placed as if for shelter.
"You are told to come in, you young rascal."
Let me suckle you," and he put the neck of the bottle to its mouth.
He swallowed some mouthfuls and made a grimace.
"It will be something to do if, henceforth, I have to feed that growing glutton.
Ursus examined the phial, and grumbled,--
"Come, you limb; you have nothing frost bitten!
The man continued,--
"Did you cross the bridge?"
In the meantime the boy had finished his supper.
He was answered by a loving growl.
Innocence is higher than virtue.
That fierce growl reassured him; that threat was a promise.
At intervals, that we should not become too discouraged, that we may have the stupidity to consent to bear our being, and not profit by the magnificent opportunities to hang ourselves which cords and nails afford, nature puts on an air of taking a little care of man-not to night, though.
MISANTHROPY PLAYS ITS PRANKS.
He took down from the things lying in disorder on the shelf a bandage of linen, a sponge and a phial, muttering savagely, "What an infernal place!"
In the meantime the boy had laid down his fork.
"Gobble that up."
"You are going to choke!" growled Ursus.
"Come in," resumed the voice.
She is well off there.
"I am weary," said the child.
In which direction?"
Ah! vagabond with your vagabond child!
He had not much trouble in finishing what was left in the porringer.
The man took from the shelf a crust of hard bread and an iron fork, and handed them to the child.
"You?
I respect wolves.
Vagabonds are punished, honest folks who have houses are guarded and protected.
Ursus went on muttering angry words between his teeth.
It was evident that it was not he who cried. He had his mouth full.
"Dead!
He was impeded by the infant, so benumbed, rolled up and enveloped in the jacket that nothing could be distinguished of her, and she was but a little shapeless mass.
"Well, will you eat?"
He drew away the sponge which she was sucking, allowed the cough to subside, and then replaced the phial to her lips, saying, "Suck, you little wretch!"
"Is any one there?"
You are losing your time, old friend.
It is not appetite, it is ferocity.
That being over there abuses my hospitality.
Tear and crunch!
They were warm.
Comfort is wanting here.
The man went to the chest.
Then letting down the steps, he called Homo.
He approached.
"In the direction of the sea."
I shall have to burn an incredible amount of coals to dry up this lake-coals at twelve farthings the miners' standard!
Fatten at my expense, parasite!
Eat away, hell born boy!
Nothing sold all day.
Yes, I should have made my fortune; my part would have been a different one-I should not be the insignificant fellow I am.
"You cry, sycophant!
The one he had just heard growling, the other speaking.
I shall return.
"Found?"
This rough and sudden dressing made the infant angry.
Swallow up my food, boa.
It was a cart, unless it was a hovel.
He heard a sharp sound, as of a chain violently pulled to its full length, and suddenly, under the door, between the hind wheels, two rows of sharp white teeth appeared.
The child turned back.
Mischievous pick pocket, evil minded abortion, so you walk the streets after curfew?
The head was withdrawn and the window closed.
The man listened.
"It is not my sister."
If our good king only knew it, would he not have you thrown into the bottom of a ditch, just to teach you better?
The boy hesitated.
"Here are clothes."
We have a destiny of which the devil has woven the stuff and God has sewn the hem. In the meantime, you have eaten my supper, you thief!"
"On the breast of a woman who was dead in the snow."
Behind, projecting hinges indicated a door, and in the centre of this door a square opening showed a light inside the caravan.
He arose, and sustaining the infant with his left arm, with his right he raised the lid of the chest and drew from beneath it a bear skin-the one he called, as will be remembered, his real skin.
The child began to eat.
O the ruffian! to come here in such a state!
If you lie I will exterminate you."
The snow was falling thickly and mournfully.
The little boy and girl, lying naked side by side, were joined through the silent hours, in the seraphic promiscuousness of the shadows; such dreams as were possible to their age floated from one to the other; beneath their closed eyelids there shone, perhaps, a starlight; if the word marriage were not inappropriate to the situation, they were husband and wife after the fashion of the angels.
For my own part, I did wrong not to denounce you to the constable.
He spread out, still with one arm, the bear skin on the chest, working his elbow and managing his movements so as not to disturb the sleep into which the infant was just sinking.
The child with difficulty climbed up the three steps.
In the meantime the infant whom he was holding all the time in his arms very tenderly whilst he was vituperating, shut its eyes languidly; a sign of repletion.
"Will you be kind enough to eat it all up, you cub?
The arched brow of Ursus knitted and took that pointed shape which characterizes emotion on the brow of a philosopher.
The mouth was silent.
"Perhaps you expect me to lay the cloth," said the man, and he placed the porringer on the child's lap.
He picked up and ate pensively a few crumbs caught in the folds of the knitted jacket on his lap.
Pack up your physic.
I have enough to do to get through life.
There was there a being alive and awake, though it might be a wild beast.
The little boy now and then lifted towards Ursus his eyes moist with the unspeakable emotion which the poor little being felt, but was unable to express.
The rogue causes the wheat to spring up, ripens the grape, gives her song to the nightingale.
The hurricane is the passage of demons.
You are cold.
We have fallen on times when nothing can equal the cynicism of spongers.
"Not so quick, you horrid glutton!
"You, boy, who have just eaten up my supper, are you already asleep?"
Then he laid her down on the fur, on the side next the fire.
The jaws retreated, the growling ceased.
Behind the stove there was a jug with the spout off.
The blast entered there.
"Where?"
"Every one cannot be as happy as a lord.
The child, in fact, was entering the house of Homo and Ursus.
What useful trouble Bishop Tillotson gives himself, thundering against excessive drinking.
"A fine gobbler this one, too!"
Ursus continued his imprecations, muttering to himself,--
"And you?" said the child, trembling all over, and with tears in his eyes.
Lucky for her!
"You will have nothing!"
The child replied,--
The man grumbled,--
I was to night, by hunger.
Running ashore on the lee bank, we wrapped the canvas awning around the baggage, and made for a thick clump of trees on the top of an island mudbank, where we stood buttoned to the neck in rubber coats.
A head wind this morning made rowing more difficult, by counteracting the influence of the current.
But after supper another shower and a stiff head wind came up, and we were well bedraggled by the time a ferry landing near the little village of Erie was reached.
There was huddled together an odd, slouchy combination of articles of shabby furniture and cheap decorations, peculiar, in the country, to all three classes of rooms, the evidences of poverty, shiftlessness, and untasteful pretentiousness upon every side.
STORM BOUND AT ERIE.
While the storm raged without, the young man, who was a simple hearted fellow, confided to us the details of his brief career.
This cubby hole of a room was also the wardrobe for the women of the household, the walls above the bed being hung nearly two feet deep with the oddest collection of calico and gingham gowns, bustles, hoopskirts, hats, bonnets, and winter underwear I think I had ever laid eyes on.
It is a little, one story, dilapidated farm house, standing a short distance from the country road, amid a clump of poplar trees.
Within an hour and a half the storm had apparently passed over, and we continued our journey.
Making the canoe fast for the night, we strung our baggage packs upon the paddle which we carried between us, and set out along a devious way, through a driving mist which blackened the twilight into dusk, to find this place of public entertainment.
Our host was a young fisherman, who helped us and our luggage up the slimy bank to his canvas quarters, which we found to be dry, although odorous of fish.
The ferryman, a good-natured young athlete, was landing a farm wagon and team as we pulled in upon the muddy roadway.
Forcing our way through the hingeless gate, the violent removal of which threatened the immediate destruction of several lengths of rickety fence, we walked up to the open front door and applied for shelter.
A huge, wheezy old cabinet organ was set diagonally in one corner, and upon this, as we entered, a young woman was pounding and paddling with much vigor, while giving us sidelong glances of curiosity.
In the course of our conversation I learned that the ferrymen, who are more numerous on the lower than on the upper Rock, pay an annual license fee of five dollars each, in consideration of which they are guarantied a monopoly of the business at their stands, no other line being allowed within one mile of an existing ferry.
It seemed that his wife was a ferryman's daughter, and her father had besought his son in law to follow the same steady calling.
Don't ye have no orgin, when ye're at home?" she asked sharply, as if to guage the social standing of the new guest.
Only the gables of a few houses can be seen from the river, whose banks of yellow clay and brown mud are here twenty five feet high.
There is a population of about two hundred, clustered around a red paper mill.
Much of this being filled with butter firkins, chains, a trunk, and a miscellaneous riff raff of household lumber, the standing room was restricted to two feet square, necessitating the use of the bed as a dressing place, after the fashion of a sleeping car bunk.
It was with no slight sense of relief that we paid our modest bill and at last broke away from such ghastly associations.
The phenomenal powers of observation displayed by this first born youth were reported with much detail by the fond father, who sat crouched upon a boat sail in one corner of the little tent, his head between his knees, and smoking vile tobacco in a blackened clay pipe.
"Yes, ma'am; we sometimes keeps tavern, ma'am," replied a large, greasy looking, black haired woman of some forty years, as, her hands folded within her up turned apron, she courtesied to W----.
Much of this condition of affairs was not known, however, until next morning; for it was as dark as Egypt within, except for a few faint rays of light which came straggling through the cracks in the board partition separating us from the sitting room candle.
It was a scene of howling desolation, rack and ruin upon every hand.
The window, not at first discernible, proved to be a hole in the wall, some two feet square, which brought in little enough fresh air, at the best.
It was at "the prophet's town," as White Cloud's village was known in pioneer days, that Black Hawk rested upon his ill fated journey up the Rock, and from here, at the instigation of the wizard, he bade the United States soldiery defiance.
The latter made a pretty picture standing out on the bold bank, backed by a number of huge stacks of golden straw.
It's all in gettin' the bellers to work even like.
W---- confessed her inability, chiefly from lack of practice in the art of incessantly working the pedals.
CHAPTER seven.
An involuntary shudder overcame me, as we passed the head of the island at the foot of our host's orchard, which he had described as a catch basin for human floaters.
She was a neighbor, on an evening visit, decked out in a smart jockey cap, with a green ostrich tip and bright blue ribbons, and gay in a new calico dress,--a yellow field thickly planted to purple pineapples.
Prophetstown, five miles below, is prettily situated in an oak grove on the southern bank.
We were at Lyndon at eleven o'clock.
We had no sooner crossed the threshold of our little box than the creaky old cleat door was gently closed upon us and buttoned by our hostess upon the outside, as the only means of keeping it shut; and we were left free to grope about among these mysteries as best we might.
We met here the first rapids worthy of record; also an old, abandoned mill dam, in the last stages of decay, stretching its whitened skeleton across the stream, a harbor for driftwood.
Here, the high banks had receded, with several miles of heavily wooded, boggy bottoms intervening.
The parley ended in our being directed to a small farm house a quarter of a mile inland, where luckless travelers, belated on the dreary bottoms, were occasionally kept.
With eyes strained for obstructions, we turned and twisted through the labyrinth, jumping along at a breakneck speed; and, when we finally rejoined the main river below, were grateful enough, for the run had been filled with continuous possibilities of a disastrous smash up, miles away from any human habitation.
Floods had held high carnival, and the aspect of the country was wild and deserted.
There's a good many what kin learn the playin' part of it without no teacher; but there has to be lessons to learn the bellers.
The muddy torrent, at a velocity of fully eight miles an hour, went eddying and whirling and darting and roaring among the gnarled and blackened stumps, the prostrate trees, the twisted roots, the huge bowlders which studded its course.
Seven feet square, with a broad, roped bedstead occupying the entire length, a bedside space of but two feet wide was left.
Repressing our mirth, we assured our good hostess that we would have a due regard for our personal safety.
The thunder storm which had been threatening since early morning, soon burst upon us with a preliminary wind blast, followed by drenching rain.
In the bottoms the trees are filled with flocks of birds,--crows, hawks, blackbirds, with stately blue herons and agile plovers foraging on the long gravel spits which frequently jut far into the stream; ducks are frequently seen sailing near the shores; while divers silently dart and plunge ahead of the canoe, safely out of gunshot reach.
We went through the centre of the channel thus made, with a swoop that gave us an impetus which soon carried our vessel out of sight of Lyndon and its paper mill and straw stacks.
Our course still lay among large, densely wooded islands,--many of them wholly given up to maples and willows,--and deep cuts through sun baked mudbanks, the color of adobe; but occasionally there are low, gloomy bottoms, heavily forested, and strewn with flood wood, while beyond the land rises gradually into prairie stretches.
We assured him that with these muddy swamp roads, and in our wet condition, nothing but absolute necessity would induce us to take a mile's tramp.
It was getting uncomfortably muddy under the trees, which had not long sufficed as an umbrella, and the rubber coats were not warranted to withstand a deluge, so we accepted the invitation with alacrity and paddled over through the pelting storm.
We were somewhat jaded by the time Monday morning came, for Sunday brought not only no relief, but repetitions of many of the most horrible of these "tales of a wayside inn."
Looking up, we saw for the first time a small tent on the opposite shore, a quarter of a mile away, in front of which was a man shouting to us and beckoning us over.
W---- modestly confessed to never having possessed such an instrument.
The cut-off was an ugly looking channel; but where our informant had gone through, with his unwieldy hulk, we considered it safe to venture with a canoe, so readily responsive to the slightest paddle stroke.
There are rapids, almost continually, from a mile above Prophetstown to Erie, ten miles below.
The islands increase in number and in size, some of them being over a mile in length by a quarter of a mile in breadth; the bottoms frequently resolve themselves into wide morasses, thickly studded with great elms, maples, and cotton woods, among which the spring flood has wrought direful destruction.
"Ah! you were in the cavalry service, then?" I said to our landlord, by way of helping along the conversation.
The river is here from a half to three quarters of a mile broad, but the shallows and snags are as numerous as ever and navigation is continually attended with some danger of being either grounded or capsized.
Canoeists must not be too particular about the fare set before them; but on this occasion we were able to swallow but a few mouthfuls of the repast and our lunch basket was drawn on as soon as we were once more afloat.
It was a unique and picturesque procession.
With our host, a glib and rapid talker in a swaggering tone, one could not but be much amused, as he exhibited a degree of self appreciation that was decidedly refreshing.
After having been gruffly refused by a churlish farmer, who doubtless recognized no difference between a canoeist and a tramp, I struck a bargain with a negro cultivating a cornfield with a span of coal black mules, and in half an hour he was at the ferry landing with a wagon.
CHAPTER eight
In the centre, the main current has washed out a breadth of three or four rods, through which the pent up stream rushes with a roar and a hundred whirlpools.
I tol' the cap'n what I wanted, but he said as how I was more use a takin' keer of the supplies.
It is a great pity that so many farmers' wives are the wretched cooks they are.
The old grandmother, with a face like parchment and one gleaming eye, sat in a low rocking chair by the stove, crooning over a corn cob pipe and using the wood box for a cuspadore.
It was quite evident that the breakfast we were eating was a special spread in honor of probably the only guests the quondam tavern had had these many months.
There was a momentary silence, broken by Simple Simon, who wiped his knife on his tongue, and made a wild attack on the butter dish.
This bill of fare, warranted to destroy the best of appetites, will be recognized by too many of my readers as that to be found at the average American farm house, although we all doubtless know of some magnificent exceptions, which only prove the rule.
That cap'n hadn't no enterprise 'bout him.
The old woman had been listening eagerly to this narrative, evidently quite proud of her boy's achievements, but not hearing all that had been said.
Now and then the banks become firmer, with charming vistas of high, wooded hills coming down to the water's edge; broad savannas intervene, decked out with variegated flora, prominent being the elsewhere rare atragene Americana, the spider wort, the little blue lobelia, and the cup weed.
She had a vinegary, slangy tongue, and being somewhat deaf, would break in upon the conversation with remarks sharper than they were pat.
Washing out the canoe and chaining in the oars and paddle, we lifted it into the wagon box, piled our baggage on top, and set off over the hills and fields to Coloma, W---- and I trudging behind the dray, ankle deep in mud, for the late rains had well moistened the black prairie soil.
It was like going through Cleveland on the fast mail.
These savannas are apparently overflowed in times of exceptionally high water; and there are evidences that the stream has occasionally changed its course, through the sunbaked banks of ashy gray mud, in years long past.
Fourteen miles above the mouth of the Rock, is the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy railroad bridge, with Carbon Cliff on the north and Coloma on the south, each one mile from the river.
The river continues to widen as we approach the junction with the Mississippi,--thirty nine miles below Erie,--and to assume the characteristics of the great river into which it pours its flood.
The scene becomes peculiarly desolate and mournful, often giving one the impression of being far removed from civilization, threading the course of some hitherto unexplored stream. Penetrate the deep fringe of forest and morass on foot, however, and smiling prairies are found beyond, stretching to the horizon and cut up into prosperous farms.
It is no wonder that country boys drift to the cities, where they can obtain properly cooked food and live like rational beings.
The husband, whom we had not met before, was a short, smooth faced, voluble, overgrown boy sort of man.
She now broke out, in shrill, high notes,--
At Cleveland, a staid little village on an open plain, which we reached soon after the dinner hour, there is an unused mill dam going to decay.
"No, I wa'n't hurt at all,--that is, so to speak, wounded.
The mother was dumpy, coarse, and good-natured.
"Were you wounded, sir?" asked W----, sympathetically.
It is an ugly crevasse, but a careful examination showed the passage to be feasible, so we retreated an eighth of a mile up stream, took our bearings, and went through with a speed that nearly took our breath away and appeared to greatly astonish a half dozen fishermen idly angling from the dilapidated apron on either side.
Stopping to question them, we found them both well informed as to the railway time tables of the vicinity and the topography of the lower river.
We began to deem it worth while to inquire about the condition of affairs at the mouth.
He had been a veteran in the War of the Rebellion, he proudly assured us, and pointed with his knife to his discharge paper, which was hung up in an old looking glass frame by the side of the clock.
The present landing was the last chance to strike a railway, except at Milan, twelve miles below.
Leaving W---- to gossip with the ferryman's wife, who came down to the bank with an armful of smiling twins, to view a craft so strange to her vision, I went up into the country to engage a team to take our boat upon its last portage.
Taking a final spurt down to a ferry landing a quarter of a mile beyond, on the south bank, we beached our canoe at five o five p m, having voyaged two hundred and sixty seven miles in somewhat less than seven days and a half.
THE LAST DAY OUT.
Then various kinds of birds came and after them a great herd of rhinceroses and among them was one which had the dried up body of the boy's father stuck on its horn.
and they drank and went away.
"Did you think, Grannie, that you could bite my iron bow and arrows?"
The boy was rather frightened and sang
He journeyed on all day and at nightfall he came to a village; there he went up to the house of an old woman to ask for a bed.
He asked her what she was eating: "Some pulse I got from the village headman," "Give me a little to try" he begged.
Then he told her that a good cure for toothache was to bite on a white stone and she believed him and the next morning got a piece of white quartz and began to bite on it; but this only broke her teeth and made her mouth bleed so that the pain was worse than before: then the boy jeered at her and said.
The old woman was called Hutibudi; and she and the boy sat up late talking together and then they lay down to sleep; but in the middle of the night he heard the old woman crunching away trying to bite his bow to pieces.
"He is alive" said she "but a long time ago a rhinoceros carried him off on its horn." Then the boy vowed that he would go in search of his father and made his mother put him up provisions for the journey; and he started off taking with him an iron bow and a big bundle of arrows.
The man is really hateful; the action really mean; the situation really tragic-all in themselves and quite apart from our opinion.
In practical life no urgent need has yet arisen for deciding whether to treat them as rigorously mental or as rigorously physical facts.
It surely can be nothing intrinsic in the individual experience.
A piece of experience of a determinate sort is there, but there at first as a 'pure' fact.
By engendering and translocating just these qualities, actively efficacious as they seem to be, we ourselves succeed in altering nature so as to suit us; and until more purely intellectual, as distinguished from practical, needs had arisen, no one ever thought of calling these qualities subjective.
If we mean by physical nature whatever lies beyond the surface of our bodies, these attributes are inert throughout the whole extent of physical nature.
I now return to the subject, because I believe that, so far from invalidating my general thesis, these phenomena, when properly analyzed, afford it powerful support.
It is their way of behaving towards each other, their system of relations, their function; and all these things vary with the context in which we find it opportune to consider them.
Our body itself is the palmary instance of the ambiguous.
In the two cases their contexts are apt to be different.
In Section seven. of [the first essay], I treated of this class of experiences very inadequately, because I had to be so brief.
With the affectional experiences which we are considering, the relatively 'pure' condition lasts.
The central point of the pure experience theory is that 'outer' and 'inner' are names for two groups into which we sort experiences according to the way in which they act upon their neighbors.
It is thus both energetic and inert; and the same is true (if you vary the associates properly) of every other piece of experience.
Psychologists, studying our perceptions of movement, have unearthed experiences in which movement is felt in general but not ascribed correctly to the body that really moves.
When active, it would figure in the physical, and when inactive, in the mental group.
Here whatever is hard interferes with the space its neighbors occupy.
Classifications depend on our temporary purposes.
The beauty of a thing or its value is no force that can be plotted in a polygon of compositions, nor does its 'use' or 'significance' affect in the minutest degree its vicissitudes or destiny at the hands of physical nature.
Turn now to those affective phenomena which more directly concern us.
We discover beauty just as we discover the physical properties of things.
It is those very appreciative attributes of things, their dangerousness, beauty, rarity, utility, etc, that primarily appeal to our attention.
That, however, is enough to save them from being classed as absolutely non objective.
We can say that we are aware of a painful place, filling a certain bigness in our organism, or we can say that we are inwardly in a 'state' of pain.
Sometimes I treat my body purely as a part of outer nature.
It dents them; is impenetrable by them; and we call the hardness then a physical hardness.
Even the primary qualities are undergoing the same fate.
It is by the interest and importance that experiences have for us, by the emotions they excite, and the purposes they subserve, by their affective values, in short, that their consecution in our several conscious streams, as 'thoughts' of ours, is mainly ruled.
Hardness and softness are effects on us of atomic interactions, and the atoms themselves are neither hard nor soft, nor solid nor liquid.
First of all, then, it is a mistake to say, with the objectors whom I began by citing, that anger, love and fear are affections purely of the mind.
So far, then, as the physical world means the collection of contents that determine in each other certain regular changes, the whole collection of our appreciative attributes has to be treated as falling outside of it.
Thoughts, we all naturally think, are made of one kind of substance, and things of another.
Thus would these experiences, so far from being an obstacle to the pure experience philosophy, serve as an excellent corroboration of its truth.
But if, on the contrary, these words are words of sorting, ambiguity is natural.
At the moment, it is there for neither; later we shall probably judge it to have been there for both.
In the paragraphs that follow I shall try to show:
It is the very light of the arc lamp which displaces the darkness of the midnight street, etc
For then, as soon as the relations of a thing are sufficiently various it can be sorted variously.
Consciousness, flowing inside of us in the forms of conception or judgment, or concentrating itself in the shape of passion or emotion, can be directly felt as the spiritual activity which it is, and known in contrast with the space filling objective 'content' which it envelopes and accompanies.
So they remain equivocal; and, as the world goes, their equivocality is one of their great conveniences.
The common sense stage of thought is a perfectly definite practical halting place, the place where we ourselves can proceed to act unhesitatingly.
Training is needed to make us expert in either line.
Desire introduces them; interest holds them; fitness fixes their order and connection.
Shall we say an 'agreeable degree of heat,' or an 'agreeable feeling' occasioned by the degree of heat?
To her offspring a tigress is tender, but cruel to every other living thing-both cruel and tender, therefore, at once.
Common sense and popular philosophy are as dualistic as it is possible to be.
Why then do men leave them as ambiguous as they do, and not class them decisively as purely spiritual?
We even go so far as to talk of a weary road, a giddy height, a jocund morning or a sullen sky; and the term 'indefinite' while usually applied only to our apprehensions, functions as a fundamental physical qualification of things in Spencer's 'law of evolution,' and doubtless passes with most readers for all right.
It is possible to imagine a universe of experiences in which the only alternative between neighbors would be either physical interaction or complete inertness.
They are undeniable parts of pure experience; yet, while common sense and what I call radical empiricism stand for their being objective, both rationalism and the usual empiricism claim that they are exclusively the 'work of the mind'--the finite mind or the absolute mind, as the case may be.
In the extraordinary case of amnesia of the Rev.
(one) That the popular notion that these experiences are intuitively given as purely inner facts is hasty and erroneous; and
Let the reader arrest himself in the act of reading this article now.
When clouds float by the moon, it is as if both clouds and moon and we ourselves shared in the motion.
If 'physical' and 'mental' meant two different kinds of intrinsic nature, immediately, intuitively, and infallibly discernible, and each fixed forever in whatever bit of experience it qualified, one does not see how there could ever have arisen any room for doubt or ambiguity.
It is only towards certain specific groups of associates that the physical energies, as we call them, of a content are put forth. In another group it may be quite inert.
Something like this is true of every experience, however complex, at the moment of its actual presence.
Chemical 'affinities' are a purely verbal metaphor; and, as I just said, even such things as forces, tensions, and activities can at a pinch be regarded as anthropomorphic projections.
There is no original spirituality or materiality of being, intuitively discerned, then; but only a translocation of experiences from one world to another; a grouping of them with one set or another of associates for definitely practical or intellectual ends.
Sometimes, again, I think of it as 'mine,' I sort it with the 'me,' and then certain local changes and determinations in it pass for spiritual happenings.
The 'interesting' aspects of things are thus not wholly inert physically, though they be active only in these small corners of physical nature which our bodies occupy.
The sun caresses it, and the zephyr wooes it as if it were a bed of roses.
The reason would seem to be that, although they are inert as regards the rest of physical nature, they are not inert as regards that part of physical nature which our own skin covers.
Either will do; and language would lose most of its esthetic and rhetorical value were we forbidden to project words primarily connoting our affections upon the objects by which the affections are aroused.
But the universe we live in is more chaotic than this, and there is room in it for the hybrid or ambiguous group of our affectional experiences, of our emotions and appreciative perceptions.
On this stage of thought things act on each other as well as on us by means of their secondary qualities.
If I were the owner of a newspaper, I think I would have painted up on the wall of the local room the following words from isaiah, the best of all watchwords for all who write:
His umbrella leaned against a shop window, on the sill of which he had laid a carefully rolled up newspaper.
It seems to me that his job ought to be good training for a novelist, as it teaches him a habit of human sensitiveness.
Then the battered jester turns again to his machine and ticks off something like this:
The original of all paragraphers-ecclesiastes--came very near ending as a complete cynic; though in what f p a would call his "lastline," he managed to wriggle into a more hopeful mood.
Joseph Conrad (who seems, by the way, to be more read by newspaper men than any other writer) put very nobly the pinnacle of all scribblers' dreams when he said that human affairs deserve the tribute of "a sigh which is not a sob, a smile which is not a grin."
They seem to imagine that he has been put there on purpose to help them solve their problems, to find a job for their friend from Harrisburg, or to tell them how to find a publisher for their poems.
It is a job that engenders a healthy humility.
There is nothing so amazing to him as to find that any one really enjoys his "stuff." Poor soul, he remembers how he groaned over it at his desk.
HUMORIST: Young and untamed, lineal descendent of Eugene Field, Frank Stockton, and Francois Rabelais, desires to run a column in a Philadelphia newspaper.
Woe unto them that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter!
And in that day
That is just one of the thousands of vivid little pictures one sees on the city streets day by day.
I had always wanted to have a try at writing a column.
The more a colyumist is out on the streets, making himself the reporter of the moods and oddities of men, the better his stuff will be.
So besotted was I, I would have paid to have this printed if I had not been counselled by an older and wiser head.
The doctors tell us that all patent medicines are built on a stock formula-a sedative, a purge, and a bitter.
Perhaps some day the government will crown a Colyumist Laureate, some majestic sage with ancient patient blue eyes and a snowy beard nobly stained with nicotine, whose utterances will be heeded with shuddering respect.
He may yearn desperately to compose a really thrilling poem that will speak his passionate soul; to churn up from the typewriter some lyric that will rock with blue seas and frantic hearts; he finds himself allaying the frenzy with some jovial sneer at Henry Ford or a yell about the High Cost of Living.
Yet who will say that all his labour is wholly vain?
When a big jewellery firm in the city puts out a large ad-
Of course there are good days, too.
I can not imagine any pleasant job so full of pangs, or any painful job so full of pleasures, as the task of conducting a newspaper column.
This is all a part of the great and salutary human instinct against work.
Said Humorist can also supply excellent veins of philosophy, poetry, satire, uplift, glad material and indiscriminate musings. Remarkable opportunity for any newspaper desiring a really unusual editorial feature.
When Governor Hobby of Texas issues a call for the state cavalry.
But it is fun.
It is hard to get the colyumist to admit this, for he fears spoofing worse than the devil; but it is eminently true.
If you are to make steady column topers out of your readers, your daily dose must, as far as possible, average up to that same prescription.
There was something strangely pathetic about him, and I would have given much to have been able to speak to him.
Frank Harris once said of Oscar Wilde: "If England insists on treating her criminals like this, she doesn't deserve to have any." Similarly, if the public insists on bringing its woes to its colyumists, it doesn't deserve to have any colyumists.
One never buys a package of tobacco, crosses a city square, enters a trolley car or studies a shop window without trying, in a baffled, hopeless way, to peer through the frontage of the experience, to find some glimmer of the thoughts, emotions, and meanings behind.
The other afternoon I was very much struck by the unconscious pathos of a little, gentle eyed old man who was standing on Chestnut Street studying a pocket notebook.
Heaven help me, I think I had an idea that I was born for the job.
He stood quite absorbed, and was still there when I went on.
There was a time when I seriously thought of inserting the following ad in a Philadelphia newspaper.
And in the long run such a habit of inquiry must bear fruit in understanding and sympathy.
He had a slightly unkempt, brief beard and whiskers, his cheek bones pinkish, his linen a little frayed.
He becomes filled with an extraordinary curiosity about the motives and purposes of the people he sees.
He soon outgrows this, and is disheartened because too many people notice it, and he imagines that all see the paltriness of it as plainly as he does.
I halted at a window farther down the street and studied him; then returned to pass him again, and watched him patiently.
When people see a man toiling, they have an irresistible impulse to crowd round and stop him.
If you employ the purge all the time, or the sedative, or the acid, your clients will soon ask for something with another label.
I find a memorandum of it in my scrap book:
If you have to be endlessly speculating, watching, and making mental notes, your brain gears soon get a hot box.
By his feet was a neat leather brief case, plumply filled with contents not discernible.
The meanest paragraph that blows will give Thoughts that do often lie too deep for sneers.
This lasts about a week.
He then learns, in secret, to take it rather seriously.
Poor soul, he is like one condemned to harangue the vast, idiotic world through a keyhole, whence his anguish issues thin and faint.
It is a task not a whit less worthy, less painful, or less baffling than that of the most conscientious novelist.
He wonders how one dare approach the chronicling of this muddled panorama with anything but humility and despair.
I may as well be candid.
So much, with apology, for the ideals of the colyumist, if he be permitted to speak truth without fear of mockery.
Address HUMORIST, etc
Bailey, Banks and Biddle Company Watches for Women Of Superior Design and Perfection of Movement
all that one needs to do to that is to write over it the caption
Yet now and then he gets a glimpse into a human vexation so sincere, so honest, and so moving that he turns away from the typewriter with a sigh.
It is heart racking to struggle day by day, amid incessant interruption and melee, to snatch out of the hurly burly some shreds of humour or pathos or (dare one say?) beauty, and phrase them intelligibly.
A guaranteed circulation getter.
There he stood (a sort of unsuccessful Cyrus Curtis), very diminutive, his gray hair rather long abaft his neck, his yellowish straw hat (with curly brim) tilted backward as though in perplexity, his timid and absorbed blue eyes poring over his memorandum book which was full of pencilled notes.
Unhappily, their victim being merely human, is likely to grow a bit snappish under infliction.
The first valuable discovery that the colyumist is likely to make is that all minds are very much the same.
SO DO WE ALL
He has to deal with the most elusive and grotesque material he knows-his own mind; and the unhappy creature, everlastingly probing himself in the hope of discovering what is so rare in minds (a thought), is likely to end in a ferment of bitterness.
He remembers the hours he sat with lack lustre eye and addled brain, brooding at the sluttish typewriter. He remembers the flush of shame that tingled him as he walked sadly homeward, thinking of some atrocious inanity he had sent upstairs to the composing room.
"I'm going to ask Fraeulein Scherin about her," Priscilla declared. "She's made me so much trouble that I'm curious to see what she looks like."
Patty sighed sympathetically and remarked to the room in general: "It's sort of pathetic to have your whole college life summed up in a hole in the German Club archives.
She has caused me more trouble than all the rest of the members put together."
"I've gone over this list three times, and there isn't a single Ferris down."
I know Priscilla would be gratified."
"Don't do anything reckless," Georgie pleaded.
The mysterious Kate Ferris, who kept Priscilla on the verge of nervous prostration for a whole semester, entered upon her college career in an entirely unpremeditated and impromptu manner.
Look again."
"A girl named Kate Ferris has registered for the German Club, and we've gone through all the classes, and there simply isn't any such girl in college."
Priscilla produced the registration list, and triumphantly exhibited an unmistakable Kate Ferris.
"It's positively uncanny!" Priscilla declared.
Priscilla's secretary, you know, and every one who wants to join comes here.
Her name was posted on the bulletin board for having library books that were overdue.
"That seems to me the only reasonable explanation," Patty agreed amicably.
Priscilla faced her ominously.
"Let me look"; and Patty ran her eyes down the column.
If she changes her mind many more times there won't be anything left."
She's the most abnormally inconspicuous person I ever heard of.
"I should like to find out myself."
A few days later the two came in from class, to find Priscilla and the president of the German Club sitting on the divan with their heads together, frantically turning the leaves of the catalogue.
When Patty came in she found Priscilla silently and grimly scratching a hole into the roll book where Kate Ferris's name had been.
"Take what the gods send and be grateful."
"We're all liable to make mistakes," Patty murmured soothingly.
"The book is getting so thin in that spot," she laughed, "that Kate Ferris is actually coming through on the other side.
A month or two after Kate Ferris's advent, Priscilla had friends visiting her from New York, for whom she gave a tea in the study.
"Do you know," said Georgie, "I begin to think it's all a hallucination, and that there really isn't any Kate Ferris.
"I never knew them to make such a mistake before," said the president, dubiously.
"Would you like to join?
But Priscilla was as good as her word, and she returned from the registrar's office flushed and defiant.
"She insists that there isn't any such person in college, and that I must have made a mistake in the name!
KATE FERRIS.
"Possibly a special," Patty suggested.
KATE FERRIS.
She threw it into the waste basket unopened; but, curiosity prevailing, she drew it out again and read it:
Patty never made the mistake of over acting.
Georgie Merriles and Patty had just strolled home from the athletic field, where they had been witnessing the start of a paper chase cross country, in which Priscilla was impersonating a fox. As they entered the study, Georgie stopped to examine some loose sheets of paper which were impaled upon the door.
The company and the clothes having passed in review, the conversation flagged a little, and Georgie suddenly asked: "Was Kate Ferris here?
"Perhaps it is Harris instead of Ferris."
"You read the name yourself.
"I begin to think so myself," said Patty.
A few weeks later she found a second note on her door block:
KATE FERRIS.
So I shall be much obliged if you will not present my letter at the meeting after all, as I have decided to follow her advice.
On the evening of the tea, after the guests had gone and the furniture had been moved back, the weary hostesses, in somewhat rumpled evening dresses (a considerable crush results when fifty are entertained in a room whose utmost capacity is fifteen), were reentertaining one or two friends on the lettuce sandwiches and cakes the obliging guests had failed to consume.
"They're trying to show Fraeulein Scherin how much interest they take in the subject," Georgie laughed.
"I'm afraid I'm not exactly eligible myself, as I don't know any German. It's such a beautifully sharp pencil, though, that I hate not to write with it." Patty poised the pencil a moment, and abstractedly traced the name "Kate Ferris."
"You might as well," said Patty, and she listlessly watched Priscilla as she scratched out the name with a penknife.
"She isn't a sophomore," the president announced.
Why didn't we think of that?" And Priscilla turned to the list of special students.
Patty picked up the pencil.
What did she look like, Pris?"
The invitation was despatched, and on the next day Priscilla received a formal acceptance.
Priscilla exhibited the note to the president as a tangible proof that Kate Ferris still existed, and reinscribed the name in the roll book.
"Freshmen are terribly sensitive about being slighted."
Priscilla tossed the note to Patty with a groan, and getting out the roll book, she turned to the F's and reenrolled Kate Ferris.
I thank you very sincerely for your kindness to me this year, and shall always look back upon our friendship as one of the happiest memories of my college life.
Am sorry to have missed so many meetings, but have not been able to attend classes lately.
It's strange, of course, but not any stranger than some of those cases you read about in psychology."
"You've mistaken the name," she remarked, handing the book back with a shrug.
She even wrote a paper for one of the German Club meetings (Georgie was not a facile German scholar, and it had required a whole Saturday); but owing to the fact that she was suddenly called out of town, she did not read it in person.
"That's so!" Patty exclaimed.
DEAR MISS POND: As I have been obliged to leave college on account of my health, I inclose my resignation to the German Club.
The next morning, as Priscilla came in from a class, she found a note on her door block, written in the perpendicular characters of Kate Ferris. It ran:
The next morning a third note appeared on the block:
"Of course!
"Shall we tell her?"
DEAR MISS POND: As I am very busy with my class work, I find that I have not time to attend the German Club meetings, and so have decided to resign.
Priscilla knit her brows.
"She couldn't have come.
Patty sympathetically watched the process over her shoulder.
She hasn't paid her dues, and, as far as I can make out, she hasn't attended a single meeting.
"No; she isn't here."
I left my letter of resignation on the bookcase.
"No, thank you; I pay club dues enough already."
As Priscilla scratched the name out of the roll book again she remarked to Patty: "I am glad this Kate Ferris has left the club at last.
"What's this, Patty?"
"It's been very entertaining, but she is really getting sensitive on the subject, and I don't dare mention Kate Ferris's name when we're alone."
The study has been so full of freshmen all the time that I told her to hang it on the door and let them join outside; it works beautifully." Patty turned the leaves and ran her eyes down the list of sprawling signatures.
"Oh, that's the registration list for the German Club.
I kept watching for her all the evening.
"I am going to invite Kate Ferris," she announced.
"I'm afraid so," sighed Patty.
Several weeks later Priscilla was engaged in laboriously turning the minutes of the last meeting into grammatical German, and as she closed the dictionary and grammar with a sigh of relief, she remarked to Patty: "Do you know, it's very queer about that Kate Ferris.
"Not just now-I shouldn't dare.
She believes in corporal punishment."
"It's strange that she should send an acceptance for a tea," she remarked as she read it, "but I'm glad to get it, anyway.
Patty shook her head.
Georgie and Patty exchanged glances and inquired the trouble.
Georgie laughed.
"I shall go to the registrar and tell her that this Kate Ferris is neither down in the catalogue nor the college directory, and find out where she lives."
"Changed her mind again?" Patty asked pleasantly.
The Elusive Kate Ferris
"If there should happen to be a Kate Ferris in college, she would be surprised to find herself a member of the German Club," and the incident was forgotten.
"I don't believe we'd better put her in the roll book till we find out who she is."
The freshmen are simply scrambling to get in."
Did you ever hear anything so absurd?"
"Hallucinations don't send flowers," said Priscilla, hotly; and she stalked out of the room, leaving Patty and Georgie to review the campaign.
"I didn't see her, either.
It was as plain as printing."
"It's a popular organization, isn't it?
"They forgot to put her in the catalogue."
"I'm afraid it's gone far enough," said Georgie.
The next morning's mail brought a bunch of violets and an apology from Kate Ferris.
I'm growing positively morbid over the girl; I begin to think she's invisible."
"I have so many freshmen," she apologized, "I cannot all of them with their queer names remember."
"She's left college," Priscilla snapped, "and don't you ever mention her name to me again."
Priscilla kept hearing about the girl on all sides, but could never catch a glimpse of her.
"Then you'll hurt her feelings," said Georgie.
"Oh, very well; it doesn't matter." And Kate Ferris was accordingly enrolled in the club records.
A few days later Priscilla received another note directed in the hand she had come to dread.
I don't believe she's in college any more."
There was no answer; Jost did not or would not, hear.
"What stuff!
His should be the pleasure and the profit of all.
They do something with paper, he and Jost. Sometimes it is a lottery and then again something that they call speculating.
One night after she had gone to her room she heard her son leave the house with hasty steps.
That was an offer worth listening to.
Judith bounced violently into the kitchen and set her jug down with such a bang that the water spurted up into the air.
"First I will tell you something, and then you shall have it," replied Judith.
Jost has nothing to put in but promises.
Jost says that she knows all that Dietrich has been about, and she is hot with anger against him because he has not told her about it himself.
It certainly means something, when she is so changed.
She had taken the children by the hand and, stupefied with pain, was about to put them to bed, but Dieterli objected, saying,
Gertrude knew where Dietrich spent his evenings.
"There has been a row at the Rehbock.
Blasi, the lounger, stood in his doorway in the clear sunshine of this lovely summer morning, both hands plunged deep into his pockets as was his wont, and looked about him as if to see whether everything in the outer world was the same as yesterday.
At first they do just as other people do, they drink a little and then a little more, and Dietrich pays.
"He has been saying some things lately, that made me think so."
She had grown very quiet and silent.
She recalled the evening of the day when her husband was borne from the house to his burial.
Isn't that so?"
Show it to me," said Blasi, with more animation.
I am just waiting though, till I can trip him up, and I'll do it with a vengeance too, so that he won't forget it all his life long."
"I don't see anything," he said, and stuffed his hands deeper into his pockets.
"Well, suppose it is," said Blasi, angrily.
You can go to bed;" and was making off.
Judith walked along, talking aloud to herself,
Whenever I want to put something in, and ask Dietrich to lend me a little to try with, Jost acts as if he were the lord and master of the whole concern, and 'donkey' is the mildest name he calls me.
She even avoided her old and well tried friend Judith, and if the latter showed a disposition to talk about her household matters or her children's future, Gertrude would give her to understand that she had no time to stop to talk.
A THUNDER CLAP.
"Look out, Blasi, you are losing something," she cried.
"That's all the thanks I get for telling you that you are losing something, and I was just going to make you a present that is worth more than five francs to a fellow like you."
She had often said to herself, "Ah! how much longer will this go on?" but she tried hard to believe that it would soon come to an end, and her son would resume his former orderly and happy mode of life.
Something has happened to Dietrich."
Now all this fine air castle was overthrown and all her plans spoiled.
Now listen; Can you tell me what is going wrong with Dietrich?
She had expostulated with him about it more than once.
They sit together in the Rehbock half the night and more, too; long after everybody else has gone, there they sit in the little back room.
Do you think she will have him?"
She had planned it all out that Dietrich should marry Veronica soon after the confirmation, that they should set up a pretty little establishment, and be her beloved neighbors. She meant to be their intimate friend and helper, to go freely in and out of their house, and to stand god mother now and then.
She sat down upon her bed, and when the morning light filled the room, still she sat there listening in trembling anxiety, as she had listened through all the long night; in vain.
"I gave it to you this very minute.
Two men were killed.
Why could he not be happy in it now?
Now you have told me enough.
He has business in Fohrensee once a week, and lives the rest of the time down in the city; and he arranges everything down there, and then brings the account of gains and losses up to them; but it's a good deal more loss than gain.
"It's always so with me," said Judith, "when I've lost anything, I can't see it."
CHAPTER seven.
I said you'd better take your hands out of your pockets, and then your earnings would run in.
"No; he struck about him bravely, till one of the fellows got enough of it, and lay dead on the ground; and then he made off."
She had planted it all and cared for it with her own hands.
"Now give me what you promised me."
"It wouldn't help you to take me, if you did not take your hands out too," said Judith, "but never mind, I have really something good for you," and Judith motioned to him to come nearer.
At this moment, she heard through the stillness loud shouts and cries, first at a distance, then nearer and nearer, until they grew into a wild tumult.
He had no one to wash for him.
Judith lifted her water jug and was turning away, but Blasi detained her.
"Is Dietrich killed?
He tells Dietrich all the time that presently the winnings will begin to flow in, and says that at first a fellow must expect to lose, so as to win all the more in the end, and that bye and bye it will all come back; with interest, of course.
"What is it?
"Yes, she is! she is! she is capable of anything when she is angry!"
He ran faster than before, and the second fellow ran too.
"I know what you mean," he went on, "but I am not so very stupid as you think.
Poor Gertrude!
"I mean Veronica and Jost.
Dietrich puts in more money every time.
what do you mean?"
The red haired man says yes to it all.
"And no one can get a word out of her, either; it is exactly as if all the oil had been burned out."
Blasi looked on the ground, turned about, and searched behind and before.
Judith came out to the well, carrying her water jug on her head.
She had no longer the cheerful expression that she had always been noted for.
Do you think she will take him?" As Blasi spoke he came slowly nearer to Judith.
He does not belong there; but I guess you have seen him; he has fiery red hair, and red beard and red face.
That's good advice and worth more than five francs.
"Yes, and keeps on happening; all sorts of things, too.
He assured her that this affair was certain to turn out all right, and that she herself would be surprised and satisfied at the result.
Blasi had too much respect for Dietrich's mother to run away from her when she put a direct question to him, although he would fain have escaped.
The last one paused a little; it was Blasi.
"Oh do tell me what has happened," said Gertrude, white with terror. "Don't leave me so, but tell me, Blasi, why Dietrich hasn't come home with the rest of you?"
The question seemed to interest Judith, for she stood stock still.
I will do one up for you if you will tell me something."
She would leave her property to the little ones.
Jost says that if he only mentions Dietrich's name before her she looks like a wild cat in a moment, and he says too that he has noticed for some time, that she has no objection to letting Dietrich see that she can get along very well without his help, and you know that she is capable of anything when she's angry."
But this evening she was so anxious that she could not stay in her bedroom.
Gertrude mounted wearily to her room as if her last day was come.
He had answered that he must keep on there for awhile, till a certain undertaking which he had started with Jost was fairly under way.
Somebody comes over from Fohrensee and explains it to them.
He said hastily:
Some one stole the cattle dealer's money bag-"
He was her prime, favorite and she meant to do well by him.
This last remark referred to Gertrude, who had greatly altered during the last few months.
Bring me your shirt on Saturday, and I'll wash it for you."
Still she was haunted daily by a growing uneasiness, which was not diminished when she perceived that Veronica was gradually drawing away from her.
His mother was dead, and his father had enough else to spend for, without the washing for a grown up son.
With this Blasi ran on.
"Would you like to have a nice well washed shirt for Sunday?
But Jost can tell you more than I can.
"Now that is a good idea," said Judith.
I don't understand anything about it.
He knew from some one who understood it, that it could not fail. He had to draw large sums several times for himself and also for Jost, but he was sanguine that in a short time it would all be paid back, with interest.
She had done this as she did everything, carefully and with great painstaking, and it was all for her son's sake.
It had become a regular thing now.
But that's nothing to what it costs him afterwards.
A vague fear seized Gertrude.
Why was she so worried about him?
She liked Veronica because she was such a steady girl at her needle, and because she would have nothing to say to any one but Dietrich.
Dietrich was walking in steep and dangerous paths; that she was sure of, but he knew the straight road and would not his steps turn back to it again?
She went down into the garden.
Three fellows shouting and calling, passed on the other side of the hedge; she recognized one of the voices.
Blasi's money went for other things than washing, and he was not fond of doing it for himself.
This very reserve however, was rather distasteful to Judith as regarded herself, but she liked it towards others.
"He isn't coming yet awhile.
The moon peeped out from between the flying clouds, and shone peacefully down upon the trees and the neat flower beds.
Did her boy ever pray now?
No one ever knows how to take you," grumbled Blasi.
Gertrude seated herself upon a small bench under the apple tree, and gazed about the garden, all illuminated by the moonbeams.
Speak out!" broke in Gertrude, trembling.
"Oh, Dieterli, my son, you are wandering away, but you know the way home," she said to herself, and she folded her hands in prayer, for her habit was to lay all her troubles before God, her Supporter and Comforter.
"Come a little nearer to the well; no one knows who may be behind those trees.
"No, mother, no; it is not good to go to bed before you say your prayers."
And then he proposed to order saddle horses.
"Nay; do not say so.
How should he manage to sneak back among them all at the Manor House, crestfallen and abject in his misery?
"Has she offended you?"
I cannot have that one thing; but I know that there are other things, and I will not allow myself to be broken hearted."
There he stopped and stood a while with his broad hand spread over the letters which he had cut in those early days, so as to hide them from his sight.
You may not come again,--not in this way.
We will think of each other, john, and pray for each other; and will always love one another.
I have not congratulated her, because I didn't know whether it was a secret.
You know well all that I have got to tell you.
I would have loved you dearly as my son; and I will love you now." Then she put up her lips and kissed his face.
"My dear, there is john Eames," said mrs Dale, who had first seen him from the parlour window.
I understand what you mean; but yet I will."
Under such circumstances Eames was too honest a man not to do it, let the difficulties in his way be what they might.
He had said that he would do this thing, and he would be as good as his word.
It is still the same.
They continued for some time to talk of Crofts and his marriage; and when that subject was finished, they discussed their own probable,--or, as it seemed now, improbable,--removal to Guestwick.
"It would do you good," said mrs Dale.
But yet mrs Dale did not dare to get up and leave the room.
"I knew that it would be so," said john.
I'll do anything for him I can if he ever comes up to London. Wouldn't it be a good thing, mrs Dale, if he settled himself in London?"
He had hardly finished, and was still looking at the chips as they were being carried away by the stream, when a gentle step came close up to him, and turning round, he saw that Lady Julia was on the bridge.
Indeed, I have come down from London only that I might see you."
"I don't know that I am fond of such secrets." But as she said this, she thought of Crosbie's engagement, which had been told to every one, and of its consequences.
He had told her that he hated Crosbie,--calling him "that man," and assuring her that no earthly consideration should induce him to go into "that man's house." Then he had walked away moodily wishing him all manner of evil.
"There is only one thing," said he, still holding her by the hand, but with his face turned from her.
Is Lily with you, mrs Dale?"
Lord De Guest had opened his house to him, and had asked all the Dales there, and had offered himself up as a sacrifice at the cruel shrine of a serious dinner party, to say nothing of that easier and lighter sacrifice which he had made in a pecuniary point of view, in order that this thing might be done.
john had it in his mind to get Bell to himself for half an hour, and hold a conference with her; but it either happened that Lady Julia was too keen in her duties as a hostess, or else, as was more possible, Bell avoided the meeting.
Everybody knew the errand on which he had gone, and everybody must know of his failure.
Crosbie had lost his love!
Could it be possible that she should ever walk there again with another lover?
When he had thus stood upon the bridge for some quarter of an hour, he took out his knife, and, with deep, rough gashes in the wood, cut out Lily's name from the rail.
But he hardly ventured to hope that he might be successful.
"He has just been talking to me, too," said john, "as I came through the squire's garden."
She had certainly shown defective judgment in desiring her mother not to leave them alone; and of this mrs Dale soon felt herself aware. The thing had to be done, and no little precautionary measure, such as this of mrs Dale's enforced presence, would prevent it.
"Yes, I will.
"Well, it looks like it, does it not?
And he also had been cruel.
"I should be disgraced in my own eyes if I admitted the love of another man!" They were terrible words, but very easy to be understood.
He looked about as though he expected still to find her there; but there was no one to be seen in the garden, and no sound to be heard.
But now the attempt had been made, and words had been forced from Lily's lips, the speaking of which would never be forgotten by herself.
It is to me almost as though I had married him.
"Oh, yes; and then I should have to go again with you.
Of course nothing is settled."
Dear Lily!" and he put out his hand to her.
mrs Dale had felt, from the first, that Eames was coming too soon, that the earl and the squire together were making an effort to cure the wound too quickly after its infliction; that time should have been given to her girl to recover.
"Keep to it as to a great treasure.
"I was always fond of walking," he said.
"Don't go, mamma."
"Not stronger, but more certain.
Nobody dared to oppose Hopkins.
No opportunity for such an interview offered itself, though he hung about the drawing room all the morning.
"How do you do, Lily?" We all know the way in which such meetings are commenced.
"I am going to walk back to Guestwick," said he.
He made us almost cry; he was so pathetic."
But this he declined; and taking himself away hid himself about the place for the next hour and a half.
"I cannot tell you so.
He wasn't a wholesome lover,--not like you are.
That ride home along the high road and up to the Manor House stables would, under his present circumstances, have been almost impossible to him. As it was, he did not think it possible that he should return to his place in the earl's house.
He had been ignominiously thrashed!
Lily had asked her not to do so, and at the present period of their lives all Lily's requests were sacred.
The path proposed lay right across the field into which Lily had taken Crosbie when she made her offer to let him off from his engagement.
Of this mrs Dale was well aware; and she felt, moreover, that john was entitled to an opportunity of pleading his own cause.
He had so proved himself to be a villain that his name might not be so much as mentioned!
"I don't know; perhaps it will be better that I should."
"I wasn't very fond of him myself, Hopkins."
He never looked at one as though one were a Christian; did he, mr john?"
But Eames took his advice as being in itself good, and resolved to act upon it.
"Oh, Lady Julia!"
He crossed the road at the end of the squire's property, where the parish of Allington divides itself from that of Abbot's Guest in which the earl's house stands, and made his way back along the copse which skirted the field in which they had encountered the bull, into the high woods which were at the back of the park.
He was wermin!
That is, if I ever happen to see him.
"Good by, john.
Eames had gone thither impelled by a foolish desire to declare to her his hopeless love, and she had answered him by telling him that she loved mr Crosbie better than all the world besides.
I always liked dr Crofts very much.
"Poor fellow!" said mrs Dale.
I have spoken to you more openly about this than I have ever done to anybody, even to mamma, because I have wished to make you understand my feelings.
A conquering hero, indeed!
"mr john, may I make so bold!" and Hopkins held out a very dirty hand, which Eames of course took, unconscious of the cause of this new affection.
"james, who took, at any rate, a year or two to make his proposal, wanted to be married the next day afterwards."
"Lily," said he; and then he stopped.
"Oh, I don't know; not much." john, however, remembered well, at this moment, all that the gardener had said to him.
"But he is gone.
How could he escape at once out of the country,--back to London?
"But it will not be so for ever, Lily."
As every step brought him nearer to her whom he was seeking, he became more and more conscious of the hopelessness of his errand.
"She won't care for my boots being dirty." So at last he elected to walk.
"Oh, dear, no I think I'll go back through the squire's fields, and out on the road at the white gate.
"Well, mamma, it was very nearly that.
"I wish it could be otherwise;--I wish it could be otherwise!
I don't know anybody I should so much like for a brother.
If you are kind to me you will let that be enough."
She had not dropped his hand, and as she made her last speech was sitting in her old chair with her eyes fixed upon the ground.
Yes; he had failed: and he acknowledged to himself, with bitter reproaches, that he had failed, now and for ever.
When you marry I will tell your wife what an infinite blessing God has given her."
"Is it to be soon?" he asked.
"She has refused me, and it is all over."
So much having been, as it were, settled, he was able to speak of his visit as a matter of course at the breakfast table, on the morning after the earl's dinner party. "I must get you to come round with me, Dale, and see what I am doing to the land," the earl said.
Do you mean to cut it out from your heart?"
It seemed to him as though he would be guilty of falsehood towards the earl if he did so.
"Do, pray do," said he; "it is a beautiful day for walking."
"Yes, she is in the parlour.
He would have turned back had he not been aware that his promise to others required that he should persevere.
When we do meet let us be glad to see each other.
"Tell me that I may come again,--in a year," he pleaded.
Do you remember what I told you before, in the garden; that I loved him better than all the world besides?
"I don't know.
"No, no; oh, I would wish to be so kind to you!
Eames passed on over the little bridge, which seemed to be in a state of fast decay, unattended to by any friendly carpenter, now that the days of its use were so nearly at an end; and on into the garden, lingering on the spot where he had last said farewell to Lily.
"Lily, I wonder whether you would come as far as that with me." As the request was made mrs Dale looked at her daughter almost beseechingly.
But, to tell you a secret,--only it must be a secret; you must not mention it at Guestwick Manor; even Bell does not know;--we have half made up our minds to unpack all our things and stay where we are."
"So you're staying at the Manor House," said Lily.
During this time he considered much whether it would be better for him to ride or walk.
"Lily, I have come over here on purpose to speak to you.
I hated him ollays; I did indeed, mr john, from the first moment when he used to be nigging away at them foutry balls, knocking them in among the rhododendrons, as though there weren't no flower blossoms for next year.
It can do no good.
THE SECOND VISIT TO THE GUESTWICK BRIDGE.
Your uncle and Bell came yesterday afternoon."
"Never.
"We are in terrible confusion, john, are we not?"
It will be a joy to you in after years, and not a sorrow.
He had last seen her on the lawn behind the Small House, just at that time when her passion for Crosbie was at the strongest.
Did she know of that encounter between him and Crosbie? and if she did know of it, in what light did she regard it?
Besides, I should have to come back by myself."
He made his way out by the front door, and through the churchyard, and in this way on to the field through which he had asked Lily to walk with him.
Dear john, I will do anything,--everything for you but that."
"Yes, I have.
It was not only of his late disappointment that he was thinking, but of his whole past life.
Tell me, mr john, did you give it him well when you got him?
"The earl wanted me to ride, but I prefer being on foot when I know the country, as I do here."
Should he get up boldly and ask Lily to put on her bonnet and come out into the garden?
He hardly began to think of what had passed till he had left the squire's house behind him.
But Crofts was there last night, and if it is a secret he didn't seem to be very careful about keeping it."
"No, john," she said; "not to day, I think. I am almost tired, and I had rather not go out."
I love him dearly.
"But you are so unkind to me!"
How can it be otherwise?
I am not blaming him, remember. These things are different with a man."
"I'll come back with you," said Johnny.
He thought it could all be done this week.
"Yes; I'm staying there.
It was only last night that you suggested it. The truth is, john, that Hopkins came in and discoursed with the most wonderful eloquence.
You are so true and honest!
"And, john;--I can understand her feeling now; and indeed, I thought all through that you were asking her too soon; but the time may yet come when she will think better of your wishes."
"How do you do, john?"
But, john, really I don't wish to walk to day." Whereupon john Eames again put down his hat.
I'm so glad of it.
Of course she had done so, at that time; but, nevertheless, her manner of telling him had seemed to him to be cruel.
How could he have been such a fool as to undertake such a task under the eyes of so many lookers on?
It was well for him that she had come upon him in his sorrow.
Each longed to be tender and affectionate to the other,--each in a different way; but neither knew how to throw any tenderness into this first greeting.
"If you can be constant in your love you may win her yet.
I like him as well as I can like any one.
"It's going too far, mamma," said Lily, "to say that you think we shall not go.
"They should not have let him come," said Lily.
"Oh, yes; Mary told me.
Then the horse would be delightful to him.
When he reached Allington he did not go in through the village and up to the front of the Small House by the cross street, but turned by the church gate and passed over the squire's terrace, and by the end of the Great House through the garden.
They had sat thus for an hour together, and Eames was not as yet an inch nearer to his object.
"And so will I love you," said Lily, giving him her hand again.
"I don't want to be done good to, mamma.
"No, Lily; not quite that."
"No, mamma, no; what good can it do?
But the squire preferred walking, and in this way they were disposed of soon after breakfast.
If she should give him any hope, he could ride back triumphant as a field marshal.
The path is quite dry now."
"Good by, mrs Dale," he said.
But it can do no good. Let him come in here, and be very kind to him; but do not go away and leave us.
"But they don't understand.
I could not have that one thing, and I was nearer to my heart's longings than you have ever been.
john, if you understand what it is to love, you will say nothing more of it.
He had gone some half mile upon his way before he ventured to stand still and tell himself that he had failed in the great object of his life.
Eames was so intent on his own purpose, and so fully occupied with the difficulty of the task before him, that he could hardly receive mrs Dale's tidings with all the interest which they deserved. "Unpack them all again," he said.
"Have a glass of wine before you go."
He was conscious of his hobbledehoyhood,--of that backwardness on his part in assuming manhood which had rendered him incapable of making himself acceptable to Lily before she had fallen into the clutches of Crosbie.
"And so you are really going to live in Guestwick?"
"No, john; it would be a very bad thing.
"Well, yes; we think so.
"And she is not like other girls," he thought to himself.
It's my belief they'll give most to those who ask for most.
"I'm sure we shall,--if he likes it.
Why should he wish to rob me of my daughter?"
At any rate I have a right to tell her now."
"I cannot change myself because he is changed.
I would if I could, but I never shall."
He had sat there for an hour, and mrs Dale still remained with her daughter.
"You shall never do that."
Now, child, I tell the truth.
We obeyed with alacrity, for it was our first experience with a drunken Indian, and greatly alarmed us.
After months of treatment, the doctor shook his head saying: "I have done my best with the medicines at hand.
No sooner would I commence operations than the branches, slipping from under the stick, would brush Georgia's face, and strike my hands and arms with stinging force, and by the time we had secured the required number of roots, we were covered with fiery welts.
As soon as we could get ready after the doctor uttered those words, Georgia and I, equipped with hoe, large knife, and basket were on our way to the Sonoma River.
She now finished her modelling with a dainty centrepiece for the bride's table, and let me go with her when she carried it to the Vallejo mansion.
We drove our band of cattle across the plains and over the Sierras, and have sold them for more than we expected to get.
But I could not play.
After the lawyer went away, grandma told us that Jakie had willed us each fifty dollars in gold, and the rest of his property to grandpa and herself.
Even he said that he feared that Jakie had stayed away too long.
"I did not learn, it is a gift," she replied.
My eyes wandered about until they became riveted on one corner of the room, where stood a child's crib which looked like gold.
In fact, some of my sweetest memories of Sonoma are associated with these three Spanish homes.
We took the seats shaded by the fence and she continued with unmistakable pride: "I can read and write quite a little, and me and the men belong to the same tribe.
The only thing that remains to be tried is a tea steeped from the nettle root. That may give relief."
The plants towered luxuriantly above our heads, making the task extremely painful.
She gave the quick call which brought the Frau Wirthin to the scene of confusion, where in mute agony, she looked from servant to servant, until, with hands clasped, and eyes full of tears, she implored, "Marie, take the higher place for the day, and with God's help, make no mistake."
She told how poor, red faced, bewildered Marie dropped her ladle and stared at the speaker, then rolled down her sleeves while the Frau Wirthin tied her own best white apron around her waist, at the same time instructing her in the manner in which she must hold her dress at the sides, between thumb and forefinger, and spread the skirt wide, in making a low, reverential bow.
She anticipated the coming event with interest and pleasure, because the prolonged and brilliant festivities would afford her an opportunity to display her fancy and talent in butter modelling.
She led me to a room that had pictures on the walls, and left me surrounded by toys.
But Marie was so upset that she realized only that her heart was beating like a trip hammer, and her form shaking like an aspen leaf, while being led before those august personages.
Then she told how she heard a heavy thud by the kitchen fire, which made her rush back, only to discover that the head cook had fallen to the floor in a faint!
"Ah, Marie! the butter piece is so grand, it brings us into trouble. The great Emperor asks to see thee, and thou must come!"
The bed was white, but the pillows were covered with pink silk and encased in slips of linen lawn, exquisite with rare needlework.
It gave great satisfaction; and while the family and guests were admiring it, Senora Vallejo took me by the hand, saying in her own musical tongue, "Come, little daughter, and play while you wait."
We had a full two miles and a half to walk, but did not mind that, because we were going for something that might take Jakie's pains away.
And what a centrepiece it was!
This we did as speedily as possible, and succeeded none too soon; for as we reached the ground on the safe side, he stopped us, and angrily demanded the contents of our basket.
To impress us more fully with the importance of that event, grandma had Georgia and me stand up on our cellar floor and learn to make that deferential bow, she by turns, taking the parts of the Frau Wirthin, the Emperor, and the Empress.
Georgia was to press down the nettle stems with a stick, while I cut them off and hoed up the roots.
At that auspicious time, she was but eighteen years of age, and second cook in the principal tavern of Neuchatel, Switzerland.
Captain Frisbie spent much time in Sonoma after Company H was disbanded, and observing ones remarked that the attraction was Miss Fannie Vallejo.
I'm glad at seeing you, but am going away, wishing you wasn't so cut off from your own people."
Yet, after it was all over, she was informed that the Emperor and Empress had spoken kindly to her, and that she, herself, had made her bow and backed out of the room admirably for one in her position, and ought to feel that the great honor conferred upon her had covered with glory all the ills and embarrassments she had suffered.
In exuberant delight we exclaimed, "Oh, grandma, how did you learn to make such wonderful things?"
Five consecutive nights, she designed and modelled until the watchman's midnight cry drove her from work, and at three o'clock in the morning of the sixth day, she finished.
One day as I was returning from it with my empty pail, a tidy, black eyed woman came up to me and said,
Grandma put on deep mourning, but Georgia and I had only black sun bonnets, which we wore with heartfelt grief.
She searched us out, saying:
A sweet voice answered, "Coming!"
The only hotel keeper in the town sold his kettles and pans, closed his house, and departed.
When late on the road, we saw coyotes sneaking out for their evening meal and heard the far away cry of the panther.
Men and half grown boys hardly took time to collect a meagre outfit before they were off with shovel and pan and "something big to hold the gold." A few families packed their effects into emigrant wagons and deserted house and lands for the luring gold fields.
But we were not much afraid when it was light enough, so that imagination could not picture them creeping stealthily behind us.
CHAPTER twenty two
No one was allowed to suffer through lack of practical sympathy.
Thus more friends came among us.
Yet the women felt that their battles and trials had just begun, since they had suddenly become the sole home keepers, with limited ways and means to provide for the children and care for the stock and farms. Discouragement would have rendered the burdens of many too heavy to carry, had not "work together," and "help your neighbor," become the watchwords of the day.
I was satisfied just to look at them and hear them speak.
At the close of our visit, with a knowing look, she took us to see what Aunt Lucy had baked.
Nights, she set her shoes handy, so that she could dress quickly when summoned to the sick; and dawn of day often marked her home coming.
We were deeply impressed.
Sometimes, we played on the way and made mistakes.
Grandpa brought the news home, "California is ours.
The day he died, the flag swung lower on the staff.
Shopkeepers packed most of their supplies for immediate shipment, and raised the price of those left for home trade.
He was as courteous to us as though we were grown ladies, shook hands, asked how we felt, begged us to be seated, and then stepped to a door and called, "Susan!
The coffin was covered with a flag, and upon it lay his chapeau, gauntlets, sash, and sword.
Before we had recovered sufficiently to speak, she was gone.
He stated that he offered her food, which she refused.
Upon learning, he turned about, lifted a liver from a wooden peg and cut for each, a generous slice.
CHAPTER seventeen
Sometimes home was where night overtook us.
Some declared him crazy, others called him a monster.
In attempting to cross the distance from her camp to his, she had strayed and wandered about far into the night, and finally reached his cabin wet, shivering, and grief stricken, yet determined to push onward.
Like a flash, she tossed the bundle from her head, sprang into the water, snatched Frances as she rose to the surface, and restored her to us without a word.
"Grandpa, please give us a little piece of meat."
Stop all work," and a swarthy hunchback, ridiculously gay in green and gold, came leaping down the platforms toward him, bawling again and again in good English, "This is Ostrog's doing, Ostrog the Knave!
The only people not in blue canvas were the overlookers of the work places and the orange clad Labour Police.
But for the most part this remnant that worked, worked hopelessly.
Every now and then one would stop to cough.
Graham made some indignant comments.
And then came a remote disorder.
In spite of every precaution, the Labour policeman told them in a depressed tone, the Department was not infrequently robbed.
"Stop all work.
"I might have known.
He thought swiftly.
Everywhere were pillars and cross archings of such a massiveness as Graham had never before seen, thick Titans of greasy, shining brickwork crushed beneath the vast weight of that complex city world, even as these anemic millions were crushed by its complexity.
Three barges, smothered in floury dust, were being unloaded of their cargoes of powdered felspar by a multitude of coughing men, each guiding a little truck; the dust filled the place with a choking mist, and turned the electric glare yellow.
The people are here."
They were high and dark, and rather cold. In the first a few men were making ornaments of gold filigree, each man at a little bench by himself, and with a little shaded light.
To be brilliant physically or mentally, to be in any way attractive or exceptional, had been and was still a certain way of emancipation to the drudge, a line of escape to the Pleasure City and its splendours and delights, and at last to the Euthanasy and peace.
The factories that were not working were sparsely lighted; to Graham they and their shrouded aisles of giant machines seemed plunged in gloom, and even where work was going on the illumination was far less brilliant than upon the public ways.
The vague shadows of these workers gesticulated about their feet, and rushed to and fro against a long stretch of white washed wall.
Here, too, the distinctive blue of the Labour Department was in abundance.
The Black Police are coming from South Africa....
The feet upon the planks thundered now to the rhythm of the song, tramp, tramp, tramp.
"It sounds true," said Asano.
"What has happened now?" said Graham, puzzled, for he could not understand their thick speech.
"A girl?
The Black Police."
"Stop that!" shouted one of the policemen, but the order was disobeyed, and first one and then all the white stained men who were working there had taken up the beating refrain, singing it defiantly-the Song of the Revolt.
The burly labourers of the old Victorian times had followed that dray horse and all such living force producers, to extinction; the place of his costly muscles was taken by some dexterous machine.
Even the pretence of architectural ornament disappeared, the lights diminished in number and size, the architecture became more and more massive in proportion to the spaces as the factory quarters were reached.
"She might have done better with herself than that," said Asano.
"Why should I not appeal-?
Here was the smell of tanning, and here the reek of a brewery, and here unprecedented reeks.
He looked up at the great cliff of buildings on either side, vanishing into blue haze at last above the lights, and down to the roaring tiers of platforms, and the shouting, running people who were gesticulating past.
CHAPTER twenty one
From the Business Quarter they presently passed by the running ways into a remote quarter of the city, where the bulk of the manufactures was done.
The hour has come."
"In your days people could stand such crudities, they were nearer the barbaric by two hundred years."
"What am I to do?"
The long vista of light patches, with the nimble fingers brightly lit and moving among the gleaming yellow coils, and the intent face like the face of a ghost, in each shadow, had the oddest effect.
But they will mass about the Council House.
Your strength is there-with them."
"To your wards, to your wards.
Presently they left the way and descended by a lift and traversed a passage that sloped downward, and so came to a descending lift again.
"It has come," he said.
Then a woman with a face of mute white terror, and another who gasped and shrieked as she ran.
The women, in comparison with those Graham remembered, were as a class distinctly plain and flat chested.
He said a girl."
To be steadfast against such inducements was scarcely to be expected of meanly nourished souls.
He made no further effort to stop the singing.
A string of black barges passed seaward, manned by blue clad men.
Graham regarded him doubtfully and followed him.
"This is what I wanted to see," said Graham; "this is what I wanted to see," trying to avoid a start at a particularly striking disfigurement.
On their way the platforms crossed the Thames twice, and passed in a broad viaduct across one of the great roads that entered the city from the North.
Abruptly the edge of the archway cut and blotted out the picture.
The answers to his questions were in the thick, vulgar speech.
The Black Police.
"But how can they know?" asked Asano.
Looking over the parapet, Graham saw that beneath was a wharf under yet more tremendous archings than any he had seen.
The Master is betrayed." His voice was hoarse and a thin foam dropped from his ugly shouting mouth.
"The Master is betrayed!"
In the young cities of Graham's former life, the newly aggregated labouring mass had been a diverse multitude, still stirred by the tradition of personal honour and a high morality; now it was differentiating into an instinct class, with a moral and physical difference of its own-even with a dialect of its own.
"You will lose time.
They penetrated downward, ever downward, towards the working places. Presently they passed underneath one of the streets of the moving ways, and saw its platforms running on their rails far overhead, and chinks of white lights between the transverse slits.
They assumed this on coming to work, but at night they were stripped and examined before they left the premises of the Department.
Suddenly the situation shaped itself in his mind real and urgent.
He yelled an unspeakable horror that the Black Police had done in Paris, and so passed shrieking, "Ostrog the Knave!"
Not-?"
"Let us have the facts," said Graham.
The latter day labourer, male as well as female, was essentially a machine minder and feeder, a servant and attendant, or an artist under direction.
In both cases his impression was swift and in both very vivid. The river was a broad wrinkled glitter of black sea water, overarched by buildings, and vanishing either way into a blackness starred with receding lights.
And in the dusty biscuit making place of the potters, among the felspar mills, in the furnace rooms of the metal workers, among the incandescent lakes of crude Eadhamite, the blue canvas clothing was on man, woman and child.
"Go back to the Council House," said Asano.
"But, Sire, we simply could not stand that stuff without the purple," said Asano.
That walk left on Graham's mind a maze of memories, fluctuating pictures of swathed halls, and crowded vaults seen through clouds of dust, of intricate machines, the racing threads of looms, the heavy beat of stamping machinery, the roar and rattle of belt and armature, of ill lit subterranean aisles of sleeping places, illimitable vistas of pin point lights.
One lank and very high carriage with longitudinal metallic rods hung with the dripping carcasses of many hundred sheep arrested his attention unduly.
"What did he say?" asked Graham.
It was not simply a song, the voices were gathered together and upborne by a torrent of instrumental music, music like the music of an organ, a woven texture of sounds, full of trumpets, full of flaunting banners, full of the march and pageantry of opening war.
"We have arms," cried Lincoln.
Graham stood, his intelligence clinging helplessly to the thing he had just heard.
"To keep you insensible," said the man in yellow.
Silence!"
And the feet of the people were beating time-tramp, tramp.
He was Master of the Earth, he was a man sodden with thawing snow.
I am his brother-his half brother, Lincoln.
"This," said a voice on the other side, "he must have this." Arms were about his neck detaining him in the doorway, and a black subtly folding mantle hung from his shoulders.
A monstrous black banner jerked its way to the right.
Heads, shoulders, hands clutching weapons, all were swinging with those marching cadences.
CHAPTER nine
Men gesticulated to him, shouted inaudible personal things.
They were cunning.
Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp; his brain was tramping.
Individual figures sprang out of the tumult, impressed him momentarily, and lost definition again. Close to the platform swayed a beautiful fair woman, carried by three men, her hair across her face and brandishing a green staff.
"The world is on your shoulders.
He waved his arm again and pointed to the archway, shouting "Onward!"
Incontinently the mounting waves of the song broke upon his appearing, and flashed up into a foam of shouting. Guided by Lincoln's hand he marched obliquely across the centre of the stage facing the people.
Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp; at Lincoln's pressure he turned towards the archway, walking unconsciously in that rhythm, scarcely noticing his movement for the melody and stir of it.
A tall, sallow, dark haired, shining eyed youth, white clad from top to toe, clambered up towards the platform shouting loyally, and sprang down again and receded, looking backward.
Most of the faces were flushed, but many were ghastly white.
The others came nearer to hear his words.
He perceived what had happened to the uproar.
Men and women mingled in the ranks; tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp. The whole world seemed marching.
At last even-"
He emerged in the alcove again.
Master?"
He met the wonder and expectation of the girl's eyes.
"To prevent your interference."
My name!
He tried to make audible inquiries of what was required of him.
These shouting thousands beyond the little doorway had rescued him.
He did not know whither he went; he did not want to know.
Damned tyrants!
A leader.
Graham's mind was like a night of moon and swift clouds, now dark and hopeless, now clear and ghastly.
He stared stupidly for some moments at these things and then stood up abruptly; he grasped the arm of this shouting person.
He became aware of someone urging a glass of clear fluid upon his attention, looked up and discovered this was a dark young man in a yellow garment.
The door opened, Lincoln's voice was swept away and drowned, and a rash of people followed on the heels of the tumult.
"Ostrog is at the wind vane offices ready-.
"Tell me, tell me!" cried Graham.
But why these things should be so he could not understand.
He obeyed mechanically.
He glanced back across a flaming spaciousness of hall.
He perceived a blue clad negro, a shrivelled woman in yellow, then a group of tall fair haired, white faced, blue clad men pushed theatrically past him.
"Wave your arm to them," said Lincoln.
"Yes," said the younger man.
"The Council," he repeated blankly, and then snatched at a name that had struck him.
In that host were bearded men, old men, youths, fluttering robed bare armed women, girls.
Lincoln was shouting in his ear, but Graham was deafened to that.
The whole mass of people was chanting together.
"They have ruled, crushed, tyrannised.
"We have plans.
The multitude, the gesture and song, all moved in that direction, the flow of people smote downward until the upturned faces were below the level of his feet.
His own mind, too, changed.
He did not believe he heard aright.
"Hear the people calling to you!"
Behind the man was a girl in a silvery grey robe, whom Graham, even in this confusion, perceived to be beautiful.
Their police have gone from the streets and are massed in the-" (inaudible).
The strength of that chant took hold of him, stirred him, emboldened him.
He raised his arm, and the roaring was redoubled.
What did these people expect from him.
The hall was a vast and intricate space-galleries, balconies, broad spaces of amphitheatral steps, and great archways.
He was aware of a path before him, of a suite about him, of guards and dignities, and Lincoln on his right hand.
Why should they try to drug me?"
The other side had imprisoned him, debated his death.
This man was shouting close to his ear and yet what was said was indistinct because of the tremendous uproar from the great theatre.
Far away, high up, seemed the mouth of a huge passage full of struggling humanity.
Strange and incredible meeting! As the broad stream passed before him to the right, tributary gangways from the remote uplands of the hall thrust downward in an incessant replacement of people; tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp.
He was dimly aware that the tumult outside had changed its character, was in some way beating, marching.
"Tell me!" he cried.
How does it concern me?
Men were bawling for "Order!
He threw his arm free of this and followed Lincoln.
"I have been awake three days-a prisoner three days.
The man who had called himself Lincoln came close to him.
"He-has deputed us.
THE PEOPLE MARCH
He noted two Chinamen.
The multitude were beating time with their feet-marking time, tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp.
He perceived the girl in grey close to him, her face lit, her gesture onward.
He took the dose forthwith, and in a moment he was glowing.
I have gone mad....
He lifted his voice again.
They rule it in your name."
He watched the lips of the man in black and gathered that he was making some explanation.
Trust him.
Then-"
Why is he not here?"
"In my name?--And you?
Faces came out of the confusion to him as he stood there, eyes met his and passed and vanished.
But a moment that was near to panic passed.
You are owner of the world."
No one expected you to wake.
They were no longer marking time, they were marching; tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp.
Attendants intervened, and ever and again blotted out the sight of the multitude to the left.
These intruders came towards him and Lincoln gesticulating.
He is at the wind vane offices directing.
"No one expected you to wake.
"And those who meet in the great hall with the white Atlas?
Her dark eyes, full of wonder and curiosity, were fixed on him, her lips trembled apart. A partially opened door gave a glimpse of the crowded hall, and admitted a vast uneven tumult, a hammering, clapping and shouting that died away and began again, and rose to a thunderous pitch, and so continued intermittently all the time that Graham remained in the little room.
"Wave your arm to them."
"They have told him nothing!" cried the girl.
The voices without explained their soundless lips.
"Show us the Sleeper, show us the Sleeper!" was the burden of the uproar.
He resisted the persuasion.
I got no aid from either.
If the war went on, I thought it, on the whole, likely that Russia would be driven west of Lake Baikal.
Russia, in spite of her gigantic strength, was, in my judgment, apt to lose even more than she had already lost if the struggle continued.
But at least their position is understandable.
China has neither a fleet nor an efficient army.
As yet in neither case is there any efficient method of getting international action; and if joint action by several powers is secured, the result is usually considerably worse than if only one Power interfered.
Down at bottom their temper is such that they will not permanently tolerate injustice done to them.
In international affairs we are a short sighted people.
The chief difficulty came because of Japan's demand for a money indemnity.
But he was not one whit more absurd than most of the more prominent persons who advocate disarmament by the United States, the cessation of up building the navy, and the promise to agree to arbitrate all matters, including those affecting our national interests and honor, with all foreign nations.
Such being the case, they will do well to remember that the surest of all ways to invite disaster is to be opulent, aggressive and unarmed.
From all the sources of information at hand, I grew most strongly to believe that a further continuation of the struggle would be a very bad thing for Japan, and an even worse thing for Russia.
I believed, therefore, that the time had come when it was greatly to the interest of both combatants to have peace, and when therefore it was possible to get both to agree to peace.
But it was very far from certain.
Each assented to my proposal in principle.
There are also weak nations so utterly incompetent either to protect the rights of foreigners against their own citizens, or to protect their own citizens against foreigners, that it becomes a matter of sheer duty for some outside power to interfere in connection with them.
The trouble is that our policy is apt to go in zigzags, because different sections of our people exercise at different times unequal pressure on our government.
It was followed by numerous others; and it definitely established that court as the great international peace tribunal.
I deemed it probable that she would no more be able successfully to defend Eastern Siberia and Northern Manchuria than she had been able to defend Southern Manchuria and Korea.
The men who have stood highest in our history, as in the history of all countries, are those who scorned injustice, who were incapable of oppressing the weak, or of permitting their country, with their consent, to oppress the weak, but who did not hesitate to draw the sword when to leave it undrawn meant inability to arrest triumphant wrong.
During the last century at least half of the wars that have been fought have been civil and not foreign wars.
There was difficulty in getting them to agree on a common meeting place; but each finally abandoned its original contention in the matter, and the representatives of the two nations finally met at Portsmouth, in New Hampshire.
China now sees Japan, Russia, Germany, England and France in possession of fragments of her empire, and has twice within the lifetime of the present generation seen her capital in the hands of allied invaders, because she in very fact realizes the ideals of the persons who wish the United States to disarm, and then trust that our helplessness will secure us a contemptuous immunity from attack by outside nations.
They are exactly like the other good citizens who believe that enforced universal vegetarianism or anti vaccination is the panacea for all ills.
Japan stands on a footing of equality with European and American nations because it does possess this power.
I previously received the two delegations at Oyster Bay on the u s s Mayflower, which, together with another naval vessel, I put at their disposal, on behalf of the United States Government, to take them from Oyster Bay to Portsmouth.
Of course what I had done in connection with the Portsmouth peace was misunderstood by some good and sincere people.
It was only the growth of the European powers in military efficiency that freed eastern Europe from the dreadful scourge of the Tartar and partially freed it from the dreadful scourge of the Turk.
The Germans held Paris and half of France, and gave up much territory in lieu of the indemnity, whereas the Japanese were still many thousand miles from Moscow, and had no territory whatever which they wished to give up.
Those who advocate such a policy do not occupy a lofty position.
Until people get it firmly fixed in their minds that peace is valuable chiefly as a means to righteousness, and that it can only be considered as an end when it also coincides with righteousness, we can do only a limited amount to advance its coming on this earth.
As a result of the Portsmouth peace, I was given the Nobel Peace Prize. This consisted of a medal, which I kept, and a sum of forty thousand dollars, which I turned over as a foundation of industrial peace to a board of trustees which included Oscar Straus, Seth Low and john Mitchell.
The Japanese Government had been wise throughout, except in the matter of announcing that it would insist on a money indemnity.
As Americans their folly is peculiarly scandalous, because if the principles they now uphold are right, it means that it would have been better that Americans should never have achieved their independence, and better that, in eighteen sixty one, they should have peacefully submitted to seeing their country split into half a dozen jangling confederacies and slavery made perpetual.
At any rate nothing useful can be done unless with the clear recognition that we object to putting peace second to righteousness.
It is a huge civilized empire, one of the most populous on the globe; and it has been the helpless prey of outsiders because it does not possess the power to fight.
There were various mob outbreaks, especially in the Japanese cities; the police were roughly handled, and several Christian churches were burned, as reported to me by the American Minister.
Looking back from the vantage point of a score of years, probably every one will agree that he was an absurd person.
It had been established by joint international agreement, but no Power had been willing to resort to it.
But if trouble comes and the treaties are repudiated, or there is a demand for armed intervention, it is not these people who will pay anything; they will stay at home in safety, and leave brave men to pay in blood, and honest men to pay in shame, for their folly.
It was under my administration that the Hague Court was saved from becoming an empty farce.
There can be no nobler cause for which to work than the peace of righteousness; and high honor is due those serene and lofty souls who with wisdom and courage, with high idealism tempered by sane facing of the actual facts of life, have striven to bring nearer the day when armed strife between nation and nation, between class and class, between man and man shall end throughout the world.
The treaty of peace was finally signed.
"The undersigned members of the French Parliamentary Group of International Arbitration and Conciliation have decided to tender President Roosevelt a token of their high esteem and their sympathetic recognition of the persistent and decisive initiative he has taken towards gradually substituting friendly and judicial for violent methods in case of conflict between Nations.
I remember one representative of their number, who used to write little sonnets on behalf of the Mahdi and the Sudanese, these sonnets setting forth the need that the Sudan should be both independent and peaceful.
Neither in national nor in private affairs is it ordinarily advisable to make a bluff which cannot be put through-personally, I never believe in doing it under any circumstances.
Yet this well meaning little sonneteer sincerely felt that his verses were issued in the cause of humanity.
The chief trouble comes from the entire inability of these worthy people to understand that they are demanding things that are mutually incompatible when they demand peace at any price, and also justice and righteousness.
Hitherto peace has often come only because some strong and on the whole just power has by armed force, or the threat of armed force, put a stop to disorder.
Throughout the seven and a half years that I was President, I pursued without faltering one consistent foreign policy, a policy of genuine international good will and of consideration for the rights of others, and at the same time of steady preparedness.
One class of our citizens indulges in gushing promises to do everything for foreigners, another class offensively and improperly reviles them; and it is hard to say which class more thoroughly misrepresents the sober, self respecting judgment of the American people as a whole.
But I know my countrymen.
It is almost useless to attempt to argue with these well intentioned persons, because they are suffering under an obsession and are not open to reason.
I felt that it would be better for Russia to pay some indemnity than to go on with the war, for there was little chance, in my judgment, of the war turning out favorably for Russia, and the revolutionary movement already under way bade fair to overthrow the negotiations entirely.
I cordially sympathized with these views.
If this country had not fought the Spanish War; if we had failed to take the action we did about Panama; all mankind would have been the loser.
During our generation this seems to have been peculiarly the case among the men who have become obsessed with the idea of obtaining universal peace by some cheap patent panacea.
In such event it can afford to pass its spare time in one continuous round of universal peace celebrations, and of smug self satisfaction in having earned the derision of all the virile peoples of mankind.
The weakest nations knew that they, no less than the strongest, were safe from insult and injury at our hands; and the strong and the weak alike also knew that we possessed both the will and the ability to guard ourselves from wrong or insult at the hands of any one.
They rarely try to prevent their fellow countrymen from insulting or wronging the people of other nations; but they always ardently advocate that we, in our turn, shall tamely submit to wrong and insult from other nations.
I received another gift which I deeply appreciated, an original copy of Sully's "Memoires" of "Henry le Grand," sent me with the following inscription (I translate it roughly):
PARIS, January, nineteen o six.
The losses of life and of treasure were frightful.
I no less emphatically insist that it is our duty to keep the limited and sensible arbitration treaties which we have already made.
Peace came, well-being came, freedom from rape and murder and torture and highway robbery, and every brutal gratification of lust and greed came, only when the Sudan lost its independence and passed under English rule.
There are big and powerful nations which habitually commit, either upon other nations or upon sections of their own people, wrongs so outrageous as to justify even the most peaceful persons in going to war.
To have the best nations, the free and civilized nations, disarm and leave the despotisms and barbarisms with great military force, would be a calamity compared to which the calamities caused by all the wars of the nineteenth century would be trivial.
Japan might have met defeat, and defeat to her would have spelt overwhelming disaster; and even if she had continued to win, what she thus won would have been of no value to her, and the cost in blood and money would have left her drained white.
This was the first case ever brought before the Hague Court.
In a very interesting French book the other day I was reading how the Mediterranean was freed from pirates only by the "pax Britannica," established by England's naval force.
The hopeless and hideous bloodshed and wickedness of Algiers and Turkestan was stopped, and could only be stopped, when civilized nations in the shape of Russia and France took possession of them.
Under this treaty we are in honor bound to arbitrate the question of canal tolls for coastwise traffic between the Western and Eastern coasts of the United States.
One class of our citizens clamors for treaties impossible of fulfilment, and improper to fulfil; another class has no objection to the passage of these treaties so long as there is no concrete case to which they apply, but instantly oppose a veto on their application when any concrete case does actually arise.
We were of substantial service in bringing to a satisfactory conclusion the negotiations at Algeciras concerning Morocco.
But in their particular case they are able to do harm because they affect our relations with foreign powers, so that other men pay the debt which they themselves have really incurred.
On the recommendation of john Hay, I succeeded in getting an agreement with Mexico to lay a matter in dispute between the two republics before the Hague Court.
I did, however, receive aid from the Emperor of Germany.
The only safe rule is to promise little, and faithfully to keep every promise; to "speak softly and carry a big stick."
They will speak ill soon enough.
mr Meyer, who was, with the exception of mr White, the most useful diplomat in the American service, rendered literally invaluable aid by insisting upon himself seeing the Czar at critical periods of the transaction, when it was no longer possible for me to act successfully through the representatives of the Czar, who were often at cross purposes with one another.
Almost every great nation has inherited certain questions, either with other nations or with sections of its own people, which it is quite impossible, in the present state of civilization, to decide as matters between private individuals can be decided.
There is no certainty in such a war.
Many of them are, in the ordinary relations of life, good citizens.
But as yet there has been only a rudimentary beginning of the development of international tribunals of justice, and there has been no development at all of any international police power.
It is the foolish, peace at any price persons who try to persuade our people to make unwise and improper treaties, or to stop building up the navy.
I first satisfied myself that each side wished me to act, but that, naturally and properly, each side was exceedingly anxious that the other should not believe that the action was taken on its initiative.
He smiled all around his little mouth and showed his gnawing teeth.
In some other families, where there were only nine or ten babies all the season, they had been brought up more strictly.
"Pity the Frogs don't come out to enjoy it!"
These fifteen children had been fairly well brought up, but you can see that their mother had many cares; so it is not strange if they sometimes behaved badly.
And the older one answered back, "Well, you're not so good looking" (which was also true).
"Yes, great pity," chuckled the old Muskrat.
In spring and summer, when they can find fresh grasses and young rushes, or a few parsnips, carrots, and turnips from the farmers' fields, other animals are quite safe.
Fifteen young Muskrats, all brothers and sisters, and all born the summer before, started off to look at the old home where they were children together.
The Wild Ducks who nested in the sedges, were quite willing that the young Muskrats should play with their children, and the Mud Hens were not afraid of them.
If one did that, he could plainly see what they were; and if one happened to be a Muskrat, and could dive and go into them through their watery doorways, he would find under the queer roof of each, a warm, dry room in which to pass the cold days.
"Won't you catch it though!"
In the winter they live mostly on roots.
Now the whole fifteen crowded around the old summer home, and some of them went in one way, and some of them went in another, for every Muskrat's summer house has several burrows leading to it.
"Fine day!" screamed the Gulls, as they swept through the air.
You're big enough, but you're just as homely as you can be.
"I'm going to tell on you fellows!"
Five of them said, "It's our turn first.
There was no chance for the youngest five to call other Muskrats "babies," so when they were warm and well fed and good-natured they laughed and said, "Who cares?" When they were cold and hungry, they slapped their tails on the ground or on the water and said, "Don't you think you're smart!"
Of all the birds who lived by the water, only the Gulls were there, and they were not popular.
They had short, downy fur, almost black on the back, soft gray underneath, and a reddish brown everywhere else.
So they went away quietly to play what she had told them they must.
"Suppose somebody had gotten hurt," she said.
Their mother was very proud of them, and loved to watch them running around on their short legs, and to hear them slap their long, scaly tails on the water when they dove.
One young Muskrat said, "Aren't you going to let us play any more?"
Their father sometimes slapped them with his tail.
When they reached the old nest at the end, all of them tried to get in at once, and they pushed each other around with their broad little heads, scrambled and clutched and held on with their strong little feet.
They did not dare say anything, for they knew that, although their mother was gentle, as Muskrats are most of the time, she could be very severe.
Teasing is not so very bad, you know, although it is dreadfully silly, but when people begin by teasing they sometimes get to saying things in earnest-even really hateful, mean things.
If they had all been exactly the same age, it would have been even pleasanter, for the oldest five would put on airs and call the others "the children"; and the next five would call the youngest five "babies"; although they were all well grown.
They were a jolly, good-natured company, and easy to get along with.
"I dare you to!"
And many more things which were even worse.
Think of it.
All around them were their winter houses, built of mud and coarse grasses.
He knew that the Frogs were better off asleep in the mud at the bottom of the pond, than they would be sitting in the sunshine with a few hungry Gulls above them.
What had been a lovely frolic became an unpleasant, disgraceful quarrel, and they said such things as these:
THE PLAYFUL MUSKRATS
One warm day in winter, when some of the pussy willows made a mistake and began to grow because they thought spring had come, a party of Muskrats were visiting in the marsh beside the pond.
"Fine weather!" said every Muskrat to his neighbor.
These homes looked like heaps of dried rushes, unless one went close to them.
And that was what made the Muskrat father and mother stop it whenever they could.
Mud Hens cannot bear Minks.
The Eels were lying at the bottom, stupid and drowsy, and somewhere the Water Adders were hidden away, dreaming of spring.
"Hard to tell," answered one Muskrat, who had lived in the marsh longer than the rest.
They thought it sounded very much the same as being sent to bed for being naughty.
"'Fore I'd make such a fuss!"
The other pond people liked them much better than they did their neighbors, the Minks.
"We wish it would always be warm weather," said the young Muskrats. "What's the use of winter?"
"I shall let you play all the rest of the day, but I shall choose the games.
It is true that they helped keep the pond sweet and clean, and picked up and carried away many things which made the shore untidy, still, they were rude, and talked too loudly, and wore their feathers in such a way that they looked like fine large birds, when really they were lean and skinny and small.
There was very little fur on their tails or on their feet, and those parts were black.
"How glad you would be to see them!"
Like all young Muskrats, they were full of fun, and there were few pleasanter sights than to see them frolicking on a warm moonlight evening, when they looked like brown balls rolling and bounding around on the shore or plunging into the water.
The young Muskrats looked at each other sorrowfully.
We're the oldest." And five more said, "Well, it's our turn next anyway, 'cause we're next oldest." The others said, "You might give up to us, because we're the youngest."
The oldest five will play 'Mud Turtles in winter,' the next five will play 'Frogs in winter,' and the youngest five will play 'Snakes in winter.' The way to play these games is to lie perfectly still in some dark place and not say a word."
"Oh, yes.
"Hard to tell: I know it always gives me a good appetite, though." Then all the Muskrats laughed.
So there!"
Fifteen young Muskrats who really loved each other, talking like that because they couldn't decide whether the oldest or the youngest or the half-way-between brothers and sisters should go first into the old nest. And it didn't matter a bit who was oldest or who was youngest, and it never would have happened had it not been for their dreadful habit of teasing.
The Turtles were sleeping all winter, too, in the banks of the pond.
It doesn't mean so much to Muskrats to be brothers and sisters as it does to some people, still they remembered that they were related, and they played more with each other than with those young Muskrats who were only their cousins or friends.
After she had let them think about this for a while, she said, "I shall punish you all for this." Then there was no quarrel among her children to see who should have the first turn-not at all.
"Quit poking me!"
I'm just as big as you are" (which was so).
Then they kept still and listened to their mother.
This made the young Muskrats look very sober, for they knew that the Muskrat who is hurt in winter never gets well.
They pushed and scrambled some more, and one of the youngest children said to one of the oldest, "Well, I don't care.
"Couldn't sleep all of such a day as this." They spoke in that way, you know, because they usually sleep in the daytime and are awake at night.
She told them that they should leave the place at once, and not one of them should even set foot in the old nest.
"You slapped your tail on my back!"
"Now try it," said he.
They went to the river bank and had a good dinner.
"That makes him lucky."
You know that is often the way-we think most of those things which are scarce or hard to get.
It is even more uncommon than for Minks to have white upper lips, and that happens only once in a great while.
"If you will help me out," said the Bachelor, "I will give you my luck."
The Bachelor smiled.
He wished to be just like him in every way but one; he did not want to be a bachelor.
The fur was darker on their backs than on the under part of their bodies, and their tapering, bushy tails were almost black.
"Don't you think?" said the Bachelor slowly, "don't you think that, if you could have my luck, you could get along pretty well with your own tail?"
But Big Brother was very happy.
The Bachelor rolled over three times and smoothed his fur; he was still so tired from being in the trap.
The more the young Mink thought about it, the happier he became.
The claws were short, sharp, and curved.
It is very hard for a young Mink to have the one he loves choose somebody else, just because the other fellow has the bushiest tail, or the longest fur, or the thickest pads on his feet.
If I carried mine in the tip of my tail, somebody might bite it off and leave me unlucky."
The Bachelor smiled again.
"Why, yes," said the young Mink, who had begun to fear he was not going to get anything.
"Never mind now," answered the Bachelor, and he told the young Mink just where to gnaw.
"I don't know," answered Big Brother.
The Bachelor ate more than Big Brother, for his mouth was not sore.
"Never mind the fur," answered the Bachelor.
"I don't know," answered the young Mink, "but you are so wise that I thought you might know some way." He began to feel discouraged, and to think that the Bachelor's offer didn't mean very much after all.
When the Minks visited together, somebody was sure to speak of the Bachelor's luck.
"No," said the Bachelor.
Then he looked at the young Mink very sharply.
He could dive more quickly, stay under water longer, and hunt by scent better than any other Mink round there.
This Mink was a bachelor, and nobody knew why. Some people said it was because he was waiting to find a wife with a white tip on her tail, yet that could not have been, for he was too wise to wait for something which might never happen.
"Oh, no," answered Big Brother.
In the winter, when food was not so plentiful and their youngest children were old enough to come with them, they visited there every day.
THE LUCKY MINK
"Now try it," said he, after he had gnawed for quite a while.
It was not far from their home.
"I have good teeth," said he, "Tell me what to do."
It was the custom among his people to want to marry the best looking and strongest.
Sometimes they did look at his tail and smile, but they never spoke, and he pretended not to know what they meant by it.
"You said you would give me your luck," answered Big Brother, "and everybody knows that your luck is in your tail."
"So you want my tail?" said he.
Big Brother kept the secret, and worked until he had learned to be as lucky as the Bachelor.
"Of course," answered the Bachelor.
"I can smooth that down afterward.
"I could do something with my teeth," answered the Bachelor, "if they were only where the tip of my tail is.
"And what shall I do with the tail I have?" asked the young Mink, who thought that the Bachelor was to give him his white tipped tail.
Then you will have good luck when theirs is poor.
There was a family of young Minks who lived at the foot of the waterfall, where the water splashed and dashed in the way they liked best.
They said that, whatever he did, he was always lucky. "It is all because of a white tip on his tail," they said.
The Bachelor backed carefully out through the opening and stood there, looking tired and hungry and very much rumpled.
"I can't.
It was not near the river, and none of his friends would have found him, if Big Brother had not happened along.
"Yes, but how could that be?"
We will go to a place where nobody can hear what we say." They found such a place and lay down.
"You are a fine young Mink," said he.
You can have sleek, shining fur when theirs is dull.
A few days after this, the Bachelor was caught in a trap-a common, clumsy, wooden trap, put together with nails and twine.
There were four brothers and two sisters in this family, and the brothers were bigger than the sisters (as Mink Brothers always are), although they were all the same age.
The best way to get out is not to get in-and I've gotten in."
Once the Bachelor heard them wishing this, and he smiled and showed his beautiful teeth, and told them that it was not the tip of his tail but his whole body that made him lucky.
"Can't you do something with your lucky tail to make the trap open?" asked Big Brother.
Big Brother stood it very patiently for a while; then he snarled at them, and showed his teeth without smiling, and said he would fight anybody who spoke another word about it.
It is said that one of their sons has a white tipped tail, but that may not be so.
Their under jaws were white, and they were very proud of them.
When they hunted on land, they could tell by smelling just which way to go for their food.
His fur was sleeker and more shining than that of his friends, and it is no wonder that the sisters of his friends thought that he ought to marry.
"That is enough," answered the Bachelor.
"Then it is a kind of luck that cannot be lost.
He could hardly believe what he saw.
He hurried up to where the trap was.
There was one old Mink by the river who had a white tip on his tail, and that is something which many people have never seen.
The Bachelor backed out as far as he could, but his body stuck in the hole. "You are rumpling your beautiful fur," cried the young Mink.
Perhaps it was because they had so little white fur that they thought so much of it.
It was a beautiful hindfoot, thickly padded, and with short partly webbed toes, and no hair at all growing between them.
"Now," said the Bachelor, "we will talk about luck.
However it was he lived alone, and fished and hunted just for himself.
"Well, how will you put my tail in place of yours?" asked the Bachelor.
Then Big Brother became much excited.
"What will you do with the tail you have?" said he.
"I always tell people," said he, "that my luck is not in my tail, and they never believe it.
The Bachelor was too brave to groan or make a fuss, when he knew there was anybody around to hear. Big Brother's mouth became very sore, and his stomach became very empty, but still he kept at work.
Then the fathers and mothers were very busy, for in each home there were four or five or six children, hungry and restless, and needing to be taught many things.
"I don't see that I am to have your luck after all," said he.
You will have to gnaw a little on this side." And he raised one of his hind feet to show where he meant.
Why are Minks always walking into traps?" He was trying hard not to be cross, but his eyes showed how he felt, and that was very cross indeed.
You can beat in every fight.
Minks are very brave and very fierce, and never know when to stop if they have begun to fight; so, after that, nobody dared tease Big Brother by saying anything more about the Bachelor.
It seemed to help him think.
The Biggest Little Crayfish had beaten.
This showed that the Wise Old Crayfish had been well brought up, and knew he should not say unpleasant things about people if he could help it.
She had just cast the shell which she had worn for a year, and now she was weak and helpless until the new one should harden on her.
The larger people had been sorry to have them go, and some of them felt that without the Eels awake and stirring, the pond was hardly a safe place at night.
When he tried to walk, his eight legs stumbled over each other, and the weak way in which he waved his pinching claw legs showed how tired he was.
"Eels, my children," said their teacher, "are long, slender, sharp nosed, slippery people, with a fringe of fins along their backs, and another fringe along their bellies.
"Well, they don't swim in air," said the saucy one.
They swim with their legs in the water, and with their wings in the air," said the biggest one.
The Crayfish stuck his tail into the mud.
They lie quietly in the mud and sleep or talk.
They don't run," said the biggest one.
"That's all you know!
Mother Eel opened her big mouth very wide.
Still, as the Mother Mud Turtle said, "They had known that they were there, and the mud seemed empty without them."
They were restless pupils, and their teacher could not keep them from looking behind them.
It is only at night that they are really lively.
"I think it is a good deal safer," remarked a Minnow, who usually said what she thought.
It made no difference to them which way they came.
So there!"
"I have heard some queer things about the Eels myself," said the Stickleback, "but I have never felt much afraid of them.
"Why didn't you ask them?" said a Stickleback.
"Why?" replied the Minnow.
I suppose I am braver because I wear so many of my bones on the outside."
The Wise Old Crayfish sometimes said that each of his pupils should sit in a circle of six teachers, so that he might be taught on all sides at once.
"Guess I know!"
They have large mouths, and teeth in their mouths, and they are always sticking out their lower jaws."
Their mother had brought up a large family, and was not strong.
While their mother was so weak, the Wise Old Crayfish amused the children, and taught them things which all Crayfishes should know.
"I'd like to see them running on the land," said the saucy one.
It was not that they were so much missed, for the Eels, you know, do not swim around in the daytime.
"Eels swim!"
"There!" said she.
They don't run on land."
"Eels swim on land," said the biggest one.
"Eels run!"
Just then a Wise Old Crayfish came along walking sidewise.
This evening the Wise Old Crayfish was very sleepy.
Then the two little Crayfishes, who had been talking louder and louder and becoming more and more angry, glared at each other, and jerked their feelers, and waved their pinching claws in a very, very ugly way.
That was when he was teaching some young Crayfishes, his pupils.
"I don't believe it," said the saucy one.
They did not notice a great green and yellow person swimming gently toward them, and they did not know that the Eels had come back to live in the old pond again.
"Well, I guess they do," replied the saucy one.
When he had thought for a while, he waved his big pinching claws and said, "It would be better for me not to tell what I think.
"And how do-" began the Biggest Little Crayfish.
"I know as much about it as you do!"
They had good ears, and there were also fine smelling bristles growing from their heads.
"That is the way in which children should learn," he said, "all around at once.
"Well, I've seen the Wild Ducks swim in it!
After he had told his pupils the best way to hold their food with their pinching claws, and had explained to them how it was chewed by the teeth in their stomachs, one mischievous little fellow called out, "I want to know about the Eels.
They breathe through very small gill openings in the backs of their heads.
He often did this when he was surprised.
The day after the Eels left, the pond people talked of nothing else.
But I do the best I can, and I at least teach one side of each."
My mother would never let me go near them, and now they've moved away, and I won't ever see them, and I think it's just horrid."
Each one had so many eyes that he could look at the teacher with a few, and at the other little Crayfishes with a few more, and still have a good many eyes left with which to watch the Tadpoles.
"Anyhow, Eels run on land."
"Eels swim.
TWO LITTLE CRAYFISHES QUARREL
I used to live near them."
"In my opinion she wasn't pretty, and I don't believe she was young, but she certainly was a blonde, and with plenty of hair too."
As soon as the vehicle was well under way, the young detective proceeded to ingratiate himself into the driver's good graces, being anxious to obtain all the information that this worthy was able to impart.
"As I had supposed, they do not live here," he remarked to the driver.
"What do you mean?"
But they were hurrying away as fast as they could."
I must tell you that at about three o'clock in the morning, of the day before yesterday, I was quietly returning home, when two ladies, who were seemingly in a great hurry, overtook me and passed on.
I pulled the string that opens the door and listened, but not hearing any one close the door or come upstairs, I said to myself: 'Some mischievous fellow has been playing a trick on me.' I slipped on my dress and went out into the hall, where I saw two women hastening toward the door.
Before I could reach them they slammed the door in my face.
"I just caught a glimpse of it."
"Which ran after you?"
We have no ladies in this house who are in the habit of coming home alone after midnight."
One of the two women called the other 'Madame' as large as life, while the other said 'thee' and 'thou,' and spoke as if she were somebody."
"I had already passed them, when they began to call after me.
"Between the two."
"Did you see her face?"
half-way down the street the driver pulled up, and, turning to Lecoq, exclaimed: "Here we are.
"To which one?"
"Ah! and how were they dressed?"
"I mean what kind of women did they seem to be; what did you take them for?"
"As you may suppose," continued the coachman, "I wasn't inclined to trust two such suspicious characters, alone at that hour and in that part of the city.
Hence, the driver's hope of finding them in the Rue de Bourgogne was purely chimerical.
And then she began to sob: 'Indeed, madame, indeed I can't!' she said, and really she seemed quite unable to move: in fact, she appeared to be so ill that I said to myself: 'Here is a young woman who has drunk more than is good for her!'"
"Stop a minute!" he replied.
"Go on!" said Lecoq, who could not restrain his impatience.
"Many thanks for your kindness," said she, "but you can keep it.
"Like most of the girls who go to dance at the Rainbow.
In a moment the worthy dame imagined that this polite young man was making fun of her.
I had been having a most unfortunate day-six hours on a stand on the Boulevards, with the rain pouring all the time. It was simply awful.
I pretended I did not hear them; but one of them ran after the cab, crying: 'A louis! a louis for yourself!' I hesitated for a moment, when the woman added: 'And ten francs for the fare!' I then drew up."
At midnight I had not made more than a franc and a half for myself, but I was so wet and miserable and the horse seemed so done up that I decided to go home.
One of them dropped this handkerchief, which I picked up.
"Now I think of it, I did notice something strange.
I did not pay any attention to them; for when a man is as old as I am, women-"
You should have seen her shake the prim looking girl, as if she had been a plum tree.
That's the house the hussies went into."
"The deuce!
I opened it again as quickly as I could and looked out into the street.
"Ah!
Contrary to Lecoq's original idea, it now seemed evident that she was the mistress, and her companion the servant.
To draw off the silk handkerchief that served him as a muffler, to fold it and slip it into his pocket, to spring to the ground and enter the house indicated, was only the work of an instant for the young detective.
And not merely was she of a superior rank, but she had also shown superior energy.
How did these two women attract your attention?"
"Was she tall or short, stout or slender?"
"Would you recognize her if you met her again?"
In so doing, he obeyed a maxim which he had framed in his early days of meditation-a maxim intended to assure his after fame, and which ran as follows: "Always suspect that which seems probable; and begin by believing what appears incredible."
In reality, social preeminence belonged to the woman who had left the large, broad footprints behind her.
"Oh, it was very simple.
You will have time to faint when we get home; now come along.
So many questions at a time confused the driver.
So, just as they were about to get into the cab, I called to them: 'Wait a bit, my little friends, you have promised papa some sous; where are they?' The one who had called after the cab at once handed me thirty francs, saying: 'Above all, make haste!'"
He had been mistaken, however, in attributing the higher standing to the woman wearing the shoes with the high heels, the marks of which he had so particularly noticed in the snow, with all the attendant signs of precipitation, terror, and weakness.
Nor was it at all likely that these two fugitives, conscious as they were of their perilous situation, had gone straight to their real home in a vehicle hired on the public highway.
"Is that all, my good fellow?" he asked the driver, who during the last few minutes had been busy with his horses.
I had forgotten," exclaimed the old woman.
"Why, the dowdy one.
"In what direction?"
"You scamp-!" she began.
These facts confirmed even if they corrected Lecoq's first suppositions. As he had suspected, the social position of the two women was not the same.
"The girl who was neatly dressed, the one who-"
"Really, I don't exactly know."
As usual, he found among the mob a large number of girls and women; for, strange to say, the Parisian fair sex is rather partial to the disgusting sights and horrible emotions that repay a visit to the Morgue.
d'Escorval is, of course, in his office?"
Don't be uneasy about the score, and if you need a trap use mine for nothing, till you have caught the jades." As Lecoq's purse was low, he did not insist.
"All right, then.
"In that case," said he, "I have a letter for you, written by your comrade, who was obliged to go away. Here it is."
"But-"
This clothing, after a certain time, is sold-for nothing is wasted at the Morgue.
"His comrades put their hands over his mouth, and one of them exclaimed: 'What are you about, you fool, to mix yourself up with this affair!
Then, producing first his watch, and next his purse, he added: "We have been an hour and forty minutes, my good fellow, consequently I owe you-"
Do you want to get us into trouble?'
"Certainly.
Indeed, our hero accepted it as a token of unquestioning devotion which it would be his duty to repay with a master's kind protection toward his first disciple.
"Nothing at all," replied the driver, decidedly.
a b s"
I lodge at his place, because I have some small interest in the business, you see."
"Thereupon they went out, and I followed them.
A friendly "hush!" was the only response.
There was no fear of their doing so, however, on the morrow of the tragedy at Poivriere, for the mysterious murderer whose identity Lecoq was trying to establish had furnished three victims for their delectation.
If I were master here, on days like this, I would charge an admission fee of two sous a head, with half price for children.
What do you mean?"
This simple formula of politeness brought a faint smile to his lips.
"Why not!
As a rule, they are far less interested in the corpses laid out for public view on the marble slabs in the principal hall than in the people of every age and station in life who congregate here all day long; at times coming in search of some lost relative or friend, but far more frequently impelled by idle curiosity.
It would have been cruel to refuse such a request.
The keeper glanced suspiciously at his eager questioner, but after a moment's hesitation, he ventured to inquire: "Are you one of them?"
However, Lecoq was too occupied with his own thoughts to remark the horrors of the scene.
The attendants are so accustomed to the horrors of the place that the most sickly sight fails to impress them; and even under the most distressing circumstances, they hasten gaily to and fro, exchanging jests well calculated to make an ordinary mortal's flesh creep.
If there was a crowd on the roadway outside, it was because the gloomy building itself was crammed full of people.
The man shook his head.
"Yes, there was one here."
However, he had no time to waste in thought, and accordingly at once proceeded to peruse the note, which ran as follows:
"Excuse me," he interrupted, "didn't a detective come here this morning?"
A few, the more sensitive among them, may come no further than the door, but the others enter, and after a long stare return and recount their impressions to their less courageous companions.
The young detective was hastening away, when Papillon called him back. "When you leave the Morgue you will want to go somewhere else," he said, "you told me that you had another appointment, and that you were already late."
I entered it myself, and it is there I write this letter, in the mean time watching them out of the corner of my eye.
Through the small arched windows a gray light stole in on the exposed bodies, bringing each muscle into bold relief, revealing the ghastly tints of the lifeless flesh, and imparting a sinister aspect to the tattered clothing hung around the room to aid in the identification of the corpses.
When a mysterious crime has been perpetrated, or a great catastrophe has happened, and the identity of the victims has not been established, "a great day" invariably follows at the Morgue.
"You will, at least, take my name and address?" continued the driver.
The keeper's face brightened up.
It would only have served me right if the liquor I bought with it had given me the gripes.
I don't see him anywhere?"
It would bring in a round sum, more than enough to cover the expenses."
Suddenly I noticed that one of them turned as white as his shirt; and calling the attention of his companions to one of the unknown victims, he whispered: 'Gustave!'
The shop and work girls who reside in the neighborhood readily go out of their way to catch a glimpse of the corpses which crime, accident, and suicide bring to this horrible place.
"No matter.
"No one.
And yet, ever since opening, we have had an immense crowd.
But the person who had first spoken was so overcome that he could scarcely drag himself along; and his companions were obliged to take him to a little restaurant close by.
I will wait for you at the corner of the bridge.
"Last night, as he was alighting from his carriage, at his own door, he had a most unfortunate fall, and broke his leg."
But the poor creature was quite overcome, and trembled like a leaf.
"I didn't repulse her."
Be guided by me; confess everything, while there is yet time; and abandon the present course which may lead you into serious danger.
"You kept her at a distance at all events.
"You may retire, my good woman," said he kindly, after a moment's pause, "but remember that your strange silence injures your husband far more than anything you could say."
Not understanding his connection with the affair, she asked herself if her testimony might not prove his death warrant.
You simply desired to attract her attention, to influence her evidence."
She swore that she had been misunderstood, that her words had been misconstrued; and vowed on her mother's memory, that she had never heard the name of Lacheneur before.
Still, he preserved an obstinate silence; and the magistrate finding that this last thrust had failed to produce any effect, gave up the fight in despair.
He rang the bell, and ordered the guard to conduct the witness back to prison, and to take every precaution to prevent him seeing his wife again.
"No, sir, no Since she has seen her husband, it is quite impossible to get her to speak.
"It wasn't the time for sentiment."
The magistrate turned to his clerk: "Goguet," said he, "read the last remark you took down."
"But for that supposition, your words would have been meaningless?"
Lecoq smiled as he went up the stairs.
Why did you behave in that manner?"
"Don't prevaricate any longer," he said.
I thought I was acting for the best-"
He seemed confounded, and hung his head as if thoroughly abashed.
"Yes."
If you had a spark of affection in your nature, you would at least have looked at your child, which she held out to you.
"You are not telling the truth.
To the magistrate's proposal he carelessly nodded assent.
She left the room-or rather she rushed wildly from it as though only too eager to escape-and the magistrate and the detective exchanged glances of dismay and consternation.
Was he not bringing with him the most potent of justifications?
That's evident.
He paused; the door opened again, this time to admit the magistrate's messenger, who timidly, and with a rather guilty air, handed his master a note, and then withdrew.
He understood everything.
"She wished to embrace you, and you repulsed her."
Her eyes were fixed upon her unworthy husband, and the happiness she felt at seeing him again shone plainly in her anxious gaze.
I don't understand you."
What are you afraid of her telling us? Do you suppose the police are ignorant of your acquaintance with Lacheneur-of your conversation with him when he came in a cab to the corner of the waste ground near your mother's wine shop; and of the hopes of fortune you based upon his promises?
He thought of the agreeable surprise he had in store for the magistrate, and fancied he could picture the sudden brightening of that functionary's gloomy face.
Just for one second; and then she caught his withering glance and heard his words of menace. Terror stricken, she staggered back, and then Lecoq seized her around the waist, and, lifting her with his strong arms, carried her out into the passage.
He must prevent any exchange of words between the two.
He first of all proceeded to the Prefecture of Police, going the longest way round as a matter of course, but, on reaching his destination, he could find no one who had seen the young detective.
"What words?"
"Ah, sir," said he, despondently, "to think that I didn't draw out of this woman everything she knew, when I might have done so easily.
He instantly perceived his mistake and understood its consequences.
And yet, fate so willed it that the doorkeeper's message and his urgent appeal that Lecoq should not loiter on the way, produced the most unfortunate results.
She loves that rascal intensely, and he has a wonderful influence over her.
"I-I influence her evidence!
Kill that boy?
Ah, well, there's a deal to say to number three.
"Dick, was it?
Why, hillo!
"Where might you have got the paper?
Ah!
And now, shipmates, this black spot?
Barbecue for cap'n!"
"Silver!" they cried.
"Step up, lad," cried Silver.
"So that's the toon, is it?" cried the cook.
"Oh," replied George, "you don't be under no kind of apprehension; WE'RE all square, we are.
"You lost the ship; I found the treasure.
How?
j f, and a score below, with a clove hitch to it; so he done ever."
Sea! Gentlemen o' fortune!
"Fair!
But who done it?
But just then-crack! crack!
"Forward!" cried the doctor.
A giant mountaineer stood on the bank above him, with a Winchester in the hollow of his arm.
In her wonder, she rose unconsciously to her feet and a stone rolled down to the ledge below her.
He was leaning with one arm on the muzzle of his Winchester, his face had suddenly become suave and shrewd and now he laughed again:
"You make me nervous."
Then she saw him untie the queer "gun" on his saddle, pull it out of a case and-her eyes got big with wonder-take it to pieces and make it into a long limber rod.
"Hit hain't!"
She had never seen so queer a fishing pole-so queer a fisherman.
She looked at the fisherman and his tackle with the naive wonder of a child, and then she said in a commanding undertone.
The frog hopped several times.
Her eyes fell at the ancient banter, but she lifted them straightway and stared again.
"Where?"
And her hair-it was exactly like the gold bronze on the wing of a wild turkey that he had shot the day before.
"Twusn't no joke," he said shortly.
"Go on, Billy."
The little girl was a wonder: evidently she had muffled his last name on purpose-not knowing it herself-and it was a quick and cunning ruse.
He was just becoming accustomed to the mountain etiquette that commands a stranger to divulge himself first.
The laurel and rhododendron still reeked with dew in the deep, ever shaded ravine. The ferns drenched his stirrups, as he brushed through them, and each dripping tree top broke the sunlight and let it drop in tent like beams through the shimmering undermist.
"Here, boy," said the fisherman with affected sternness: "What are you doing with that dagger?"
I reckon you don't know who I be?"
In the road across the creek was a chubby, tow haired boy with a long switch in his right hand, and a pine dagger and a string in his left.
Attached to the string and tied by one hind leg was a frog.
The fisherman turned his head and she started to run, but without a word he turned again to the fish he was playing. Moreover, he was too far out in the water to catch her, so she advanced slowly-even to the edge of the stream, watching the fish cut half circles about the man.
The fisherman looked around and was almost startled by the fierce gaze of his questioner.
He was pulling the bass to and fro now through the water, tiring him out-drowning him-stepping backward at the same time, and, a moment later, the fish slid easily out of the edge of the water, gasping along the edge of a low sand bank, and the fisherman reaching down with one hand caught him in the gills.
And still she stared.
At the edge of the bushes, he looked back; the stranger was still fishing, and the old man went on with a shake of his head.
The fisherman never moved and there was the click of a shell thrown into place in the Winchester and a guttural oath from the mountaineer's beard.
"That's a bright little girl of yours-What did she mean by telling you not to hurt me?"
By and by something hummed queerly, the man gave a slight jerk and a shining fish flopped two feet into the air.
Now and then he could see the same slender foot prints in the rich loam and he saw them in the sand where the first tiny brook tinkled across the path from a gloomy ravine. There the little creature had taken a flying leap across it and, beyond, he could see the prints no more.
The boy's breast heaved and his dirty fingers clenched tight around the whittled stick.
The minnow was all right, so he tossed it back again.
She merely stared him straight in the eye and he smiled again.
"Cat got your tongue?"
"Who's that-your Mammy?"
"Good Lord!" said the fisherman, startled, and then he stopped-the words were as innocent on her lips as a benediction.
"I should say not," he said teasingly.
The fisherman laughed.
The mountaineer dropped the butt of his gun to the ground and laughed.
"How are you?" The giant's heavy eyes lifted quickly, but he spoke to the girl.
He little guessed that while he halted to let his horse drink, the girl lay on a rock above him, looking down. She was nearer home now and was less afraid; so she had slipped from the trail and climbed above it there to watch him pass.
"You heerd me!"
"Shet up!"
He looked up again.
How could he get a fish out with that little switch, she thought contemptuously?
"Oh, well, of course, you can't talk, if the cat's got your tongue."
"Suppose I don't tell you," he said gravely.
The girl shrank to the bushes, but she cried sharply back:
"Don't, Dad!" shrieked a voice from the bushes.
The boy was using the switch as a goad and driving the frog as an ox, and he was as earnest as though both were real.
As he went on, she slid from her perch and with cat footed quiet followed him.
He smiled, remembering-he liked that.
On one side he had left the earth yellow with the coming noon, but it was still morning as he went down on the other side.
He pulled, missed the strike, and wound in.
The fisherman threw back his head, and his peal of laughter did what his sternness failed to do.
"Thank you," said the fisherman stiffly, and the mountaineer turned silently away.
That was a queer name for the mountains, and the fisherman wondered if he had heard aright-June.
He loved old people, and two kinder faces he had never seen-two gentler voices he had never heard.
There was a bass down there in the clear water-a big one-and the man whistled cheerily and dismounted, tying his horse to a sassafras bush and unbuckling a tin bucket and a curious looking net from his saddle.
No, they had just come down to the creek and both they must know already.
Did you think you could scare me?" The mountaineer stared in genuine surprise.
For a moment there was silence and a puzzled frown gathered on the mountaineer's face.
When he got to the bare crest of a little rise, he could see up the creek a spiral of blue rising swiftly from a stone chimney.
"No use gittin' mad, young feller," he said coolly.
Wonderful eyes, too, the little thing had-deep and dark-and how the flame did dart from them when she got angry!
The steady eyes leaped angrily, but there was still no answer, and he bent to take the fish off his hook, put on a fresh minnow, turned his back and tossed it into the pool.
Geese and ducks were hunting crawfish in the little creek that ran from a milk house of logs, half hidden by willows at the edge of the forest, and a turn in the path brought into view a log cabin well chinked with stones and plaster, and with a well built porch.
Instead he stealthily shifted the pine dagger over to his right hand and the string to his left.
"Yes 'tis," he said, shaking his head affirmatively.
When you git through fishin' come up to the house right up the creek thar an' I'll give ye a dram."
"No-not in THESE mountains-why?"
For an instant he seemed terrified but he did not run.
"That isn't your name," he said.
Down the rise and through a thicket he went, and as he approached the creek that came down past the cabin there was a shrill cry ahead of him.
The little girl gave a shrill answering cry, but she did not move.
You can see I'm fishing, but why does everybody in these mountains want to know my name?"
"Yes." The fisherman turned again and saw the giant's rugged face stern and pale with open anger now, and he, too, grew suddenly serious.
"Have you got a father?" Like a flash, her whole face changed.
The mountaineer's bushy brows came together across the bridge of his nose and his voice rumbled like distant thunder.
"john Hale, except to my friends." He looked hard at the old man.
When he reached the river she saw him pull in his horse and eagerly bend forward, looking into a pool just below the crossing.
In a moment he had cast a minnow into the pool and waded out into the water up to his hips.
He owed her something for that-why did she try to protect him?
"What-"
The little fellow wheeled suddenly, and his feet spurned the sand around the bushes for home-the astonished frog dragged bumping after him.
He had not moved hand or foot and he said nothing, but his mouth was set hard and his bewildered blue eyes had a glint in them that the mountaineer did not at the moment see.
How did that old man know his name?
He was a "raider" sure, she thought now, and he was looking for a "moonshine" still, and the wild little thing in the bushes smiled cunningly-there was no still up that creek-and as he had left his horse below and his gun, she waited for him to come back, which he did, by and by, dripping and soaked to his knees.
It was surely very queer, for the man didn't put his rod over his shoulder and walk ashore, as did the mountaineers, but stood still, winding something with one hand, and again the fish would flash into the air and then that humming would start again while the fisherman would stand quiet and waiting for a while-and then he would begin to wind again.
Still there was no sound of ox or wagon and the voice sounded like a child's.
"Stop that, please," he said, with a humourous smile.
That very point Hale was debating with himself as he unavailingly cast his minnow into the swift water and slowly wound it in again.
"Where is he?"
BY
She sat at the base of the big tree-her little sunbonnet pushed back, her arms locked about her knees, her bare feet gathered under her crimson gown and her deep eyes fixed on the smoke in the valley below. Her breath was still coming fast between her parted lips.
With the thought, she rose slowly to her feet, moved slowly to the cliff that dropped sheer ten feet aside from the trail, and stood there like a great scarlet flower in still air.
She had no business there now, and, if she were found out when she got back, she would get a scolding and maybe something worse from her step mother-and all that trouble and risk for nothing but smoke.
So, she lay back and rested-her little mouth tightening fiercely.
Where was the great glare of yellow light that the "circuit rider" had told about-and the leaping tongues of fire?
Still, seen or not seen, flight was easy for her, so she could not forbear to look again.
She had never been up there before.
The mountains ran in limitless blue waves towards the mounting sun-but at birth her eyes had opened on them as on the white mists trailing up the steeps below her.
Something blue was tied loosely about his throat.
His face was smooth and looked different, as did his throat and his hands.
His breeches were tight and on his feet were strange boots that were the colour of his saddle, which was deep in seat, high both in front and behind and had strange long hooded stirrups.
Her dead sister had gone into that far silence and had brought back wonderful stories of that outer world: and she began to wonder more than ever before whether she would ever go into it and see for herself what was there.
She had seen that it was a man, but she had dropped so quickly that she did not see the big, black horse that, unled, was following him.
Starting to mount, the man stopped with one foot in the stirrup and raised his eyes towards her so suddenly that she shrank back again with a quicker throbbing at her heart and pressed closer to the earth.
For more information, or to volunteer, please visit librivox dot org.
This is a LibriVox recording.
She drew a long breath and stirred uneasily-she'd better go home now-but the path had a snake like charm for her and still she stood, following it as far down as she could with her eyes.
Down it went, writhing this way and that to a spur that had been swept bare by forest fires.
Beyond them was a gap in the next mountain chain and down in the little valley, just visible through it, were trailing blue mists as well, and she knew that they were smoke.
Apparently, he had seen nothing-only that the next turn of the trail was too steep to ride, and so he started walking again, and his walk, as he strode along the path, was new to her, as was the erect way with which he held his head and his shoulders.
Beyond those white mists trailing up the hills, beyond the blue smoke drifting in the valley, those limitless blue waves must run under the sun on and on to the end of the world!
For many days now she had heard stories of the "furriners" who had come into those hills and were doing strange things down there, and so at last she had climbed up through the dewy morning from the cove on the other side to see the wonders for herself.
Along this spur it travelled straight for a while and, as her eyes eagerly followed it to where it sank sharply into a covert of maples, the little creature dropped of a sudden to the ground and, like something wild, lay flat.
Now both man and horse had stopped.
The stranger had taken off his gray slouched hat and he was wiping his face with something white.
Where was the shrieking monster that ran without horses like the wind and tossed back rolling black plumes all streaked with fire?
It looked pleasant, to me-very pleasant, so long a time had elapsed since I had seen a garden of any sort.
This, then, was my first glimpse of the garden; but I had not time to look long, the portress, after having answered in the affirmative my question as to whether her mistress was at home, opened the folding doors of a room to the left, and having ushered me in, closed them behind me.
I remarked that I hoped she would find me worthy of her good opinion; that if I knew myself, I was incapable of betraying any confidence reposed in me.
When I rose to go, I held out my hand, on purpose, though I knew it was contrary to the etiquette of foreign habits; she smiled, and said-
She laughed a little, quite good naturedly, and with the sort of tranquillity obvious in all she did-a tranquillity which soothed and suited me singularly, at least I thought so that evening.
Yes, I thought so; but I could scarcely as yet be sure.
I would rather have sat a little longer; what had I to return to but my small empty room?
Was it sagacity?--sense?
I had been so taken up with the contemplation of the pretty little salon that I had not noticed the entrance of a person into the larger room.
"It is the privilege of my country, Mademoiselle," said I; "and, remember, I shall always claim it."
I remember very well that before quitting my chamber, I held a brief debate with myself as to whether I should change my ordinary attire for something smarter.
I approved her judgment.
At last I concluded it would be a waste of labour.
It was a long, not very broad strip of cultured ground, with an alley bordered by enormous old fruit trees down the middle; there was a sort of lawn, a parterre of rose trees, some flower borders, and, on the far side, a thickly planted copse of lilacs, laburnums, and acacias.
Reuter, especially now, when the twilight softened her features a little, and, in the doubtful dusk, I could fancy her forehead as open as it was really elevated, her mouth touched with turns of sweetness as well as defined in lines of sense.
I discovered, however, that there was a certain serenity of eye, and freshness of complexion, most pleasing to behold.
The town is an old-fashioned one, and although the observance of the ancient church festival is no longer frowned upon, as in years past, yet it has been little regarded, especially in the church of which Nathan is a member.
They were mounted upon benches and ladders, and boards laid along the tops of the pews, and were apparently just completing the decoration of the church, which was already dressed with green, with little trees in the corners, and with green letters upon the walls, and great wreaths about the pillars.
While Nathan stood musing, with his eyes fixed upon the church, he became suddenly conscious that another figure had entered the square upon the opposite side, and was walking hastily along.
Filled with astonishment, he put his horse upon its fastest trot, and drove round into the square, to the shop of Nathan Stoddard.
By this time the sound of a gathering crowd below, which he had not heeded at first, was forced more and more upon his notice; and the anxious voice of his oldest deacon calling, "mr
There was a strange beauty, too, about the old man's face.
mr Dudley looked, and had not Nathan's arm been about his body he would have lost his hold, in sheer amazement.
Again and again he drew his hand across his brows, until he felt that he was near swooning, and like to fall; and he clung desperately to his hold. When the fit was over, he dared venture no more, but hastened to the ground.
It was closed, as usual on Christmas day, and a recent snow had heaped the steps and roof, and loaded the windows.
Nathan sprang upon the shed at the side of the church, and scrambled up to the little window.
He turned his eyes upon it, and was greatly surprised by its appearance.
The little stone church which Nathan attends stands in the same square with his shop, and nearly opposite.
But it was like some deep and holy experience that would lose its charm if it were spoken of to another.
But as his vision grew more clear, he beheld a sight which could not amaze him less than the apparition that startled Tam o' Shanter as he glared through the darkness into the old Kirk of Alloway.
Dudley!
The girl who received it reported the old man as saying, in a tremulous, but very kind voice, "Give your master the Christmas blessing of an old Puritan minister." How the meaning of this message would have been known to mr Dudley, had not the events we have told disclosed it, who can say?
As he was driving rapidly along, his ear caught what seemed the peal of an organ.
He was leaning over the great Bible, with his hands folded upon it, and his eyes seemingly filled with tears of pleasure and gratitude, and bent upon the choir.
As the saddler mounted the steps of his shop, he felt the blood so rush along his limbs, and tingle in his fingers, that he could not forbear standing without the door for a moment, as if to enjoy the triumph of the warmth within him over the cold morning air.
In returning home, he had to pass along the rather unfrequented street which runs in the rear of his church, and close to it.
Nathan thought that it looked uncommonly beautiful in the softening twilight of the morning.
The singers' gallery was filled by a choir of girls and boys, while his own place in the pulpit was occupied by a white haired figure, whom he recognized as the original of a portrait which he had purchased and hung in his parlor at home for its singular beauty.
He did not care to follow the steps of the stranger into the church; but he remembered a shed so placed against the building, near the farther end, that he had often, when a child, at some peril indeed, climbed upon its top, and looked into the church through a little window at one side of the pulpit.
It was not until Nathan Stoddard had looked for some little time upon this spectacle that he began to feel that he was witness of any thing more than natural.
And he was so rapt with the sights and the sounds within, that it needed all Nathan's endeavors to uphold him.
For this he started; but he did not fail to run across the square and leap over the church gate at the top of his speed, in order to gather warmth and courage for the attempt.
mr Dudley hastened round to prevent their causing any disturbance to the congregation within; but he came only in time to see the door burst open, and to be borne in with the crowd.
But there was a great green cross over the pulpit, and words along the walls, and festoons upon the galleries, and great wreaths, like vast green serpents, coiled about the cold pillars.
All gazed about in wonder.
The whole party had so home like an air, and appeared so engaged with their pleasant occupation, that, notwithstanding their quaint dress, Nathan only thought how much he should like to share their company.
CHRISTMAS REVIVED.
The whole party appeared full of life and cheerfulness, while the old man whom Nathan had seen enter stood near the door, looking quietly on, with a little girl holding his hand.
It was said to be a portrait of a minister in the town, who lived in the last century, and is still remembered for his virtues.
It was six o'clock in the morning of last Thursday (Christmas morning), when Nathan Stoddard, a young saddler, strode through the vacant streets of one of our New England towns, hastening to begin his work.
When Nathan Stoddard climbed upon the old shed and pressed his face against the glass of the little church window, he had at first only a confused impression of many lamps and many figures in all parts of the church.
He had hardly begun to speculate as to who the stranger could be, when he beheld him turn in between the posts by the path that leads to the church, tread lightly over the snow, and up the steps, and knock hastily and vigorously at the church door.
When mr Dudley reached his home, after the wonder had in part spent itself, he found that an enormous Christmas pie had been left at his door by a white haired old man dressed in black, about six in the morning, just after he had gone to visit his sick parishioner.
But he was not easily to be daunted.
mr Dudley listened intently, and could catch what seemed the words of some old Christmas carol:
"Look in, Sir," said Nathan, not venturing a glance himself.
So he went back to his shop, and sat looking upon the church, and watching, almost with dread, the doves that lighted upon its roof, and fluttered about, and beat their wings against its windows.
"There is music to day in our church, Nathan!" he cried to the young saddler.
The congregation, indeed, were gone, and the preacher, and the choir; and the room was cold.
Then stepping to the side of the sleigh, he said to mr Dudley, "Come with me, Sir." mr Dudley looked upon the pale face and trembling lips of his parishioner, and followed in silence.
He caught the horse by the head, and fastened him to a post before the door.
The minister of Nathan's parish was a young man by the name of Dudley; and it so happened that he had driven out, before light, on the morning we have spoken of, to visit a sick man at some distance.
It was not without a creeping feeling of awe, mingled with his astonishment, that Nathan gazed upon the door through which this silent figure had vanished.
I managed to get below him, touched one of his feet, and tried to encourage him by saying, "I am below you.
I now told him I would run down the mountain, hasten back with help from the boat, and carry him down in comfort.
It first pursues a westerly course through grassy plains darkened here and there with groves of spruce and pine; then, curving southward and receiving numerous tributaries from the north, it enters the Coast Range, and sweeps across it through a magnificent canyon three thousand to five thousand feet deep, and more than a hundred miles long.
After narrowly scanning the cliff and making footholds, I managed to roll and lift him a few yards to a place where the slope was less steep, and there I attempted to set his arms.
Don't leave me."
Although it was now twenty minutes past three and the days were getting short, I thought that by rapid climbing I could reach the summit before sunset, in time to get a general view and a few pencil sketches, and make my way back to the steamer in the night.
The rich hazy sunshine streaming over the cliffs calls forth the last of the gentians and goldenrods; the groves and thickets and meadows bloom again as their leaves change to red and yellow petals; the rocks also, and the glaciers, seem to bloom like the plants in the mellow golden light.
While he was resting I went ahead, looking for the best way through the brush and rocks, then returning, got him on his feet and made him lean on my shoulder while I steadied him to prevent his falling.
The majestic cliffs and mountains forming the canyon walls display endless variety of form and sculpture, and are wonderfully adorned and enlivened with glaciers and waterfalls, while throughout almost its whole extent the floor is a flowery landscape garden, like Yosemite.
About half an hour before sunset, when we were near a cluster of crumbling pinnacles that formed the summit, I had ceased to feel anxiety about the mountaineering strength and skill of my companion, and pushed rapidly on.
The river bank cottonwoods are also smaller, and the birch and contorta pines mingle freely with the coast hemlock and spruce.
But strange to say, instead of coming down to help, they made haste to reproach him for having gone on a "wild goose chase" with Muir.
The Indians have a tradition that the river used to run through a tunnel under the united fronts of the two large tributary glaciers mentioned above, which entered the main canyon from either side; and that on one occasion an Indian, anxious to get rid of his wife, had her sent adrift in a canoe down through the ice tunnel, expecting that she would trouble him no more.
We left Wrangell in the afternoon and anchored for the night above the river delta, and started up the river early next morning when the heights above the "Big Stickeen" Glacier and the smooth domes and copings and arches of solid snow along the tops of the canyon walls were glowing in the early beams.
mr Young was perhaps a dozen or two yards behind me, but out of sight.
mr Young was then put to bed, and he slept all the way back to Wrangell.
Thirty five miles above the Big Stickeen Glacier is the "Dirt Glacier," the second in size.
I saw fine specimens a hundred and twenty five feet high on deep bottom land a few miles below Glenora.
"No, no," he said, "I can walk down.
You can't slip past me and I will soon get you out of this."
After the main trunk canyon was melted out, its side branches, drawing their sources from a height of three or four to five or six thousand feet, were cut off, and of course became separate glaciers, occupying cirques and branch canyons along the tops and sides of the walls.
Here, too, occurs a marked change in climate and consequently in forests and general appearance of the face of the country.
The captain, Nat Lane, son of Senator Joseph Lane, had been swearing in angry impatience for being compelled to make so late a start and thus encounter a dangerous wind in a narrow gorge, and was threatening to put the missionaries ashore to seek their lost companion, while he went on down the river about his business.
The sunbeams streaming through the ice pinnacles along its terminal wall produced a wonderful glory of color, and the broad, sparkling crystal prairie and the distant snowy fountains were wonderfully attractive and made me pray for opportunity to explore them.
On account of destructive fires the woods are younger and are composed of smaller trees about a foot to eighteen inches in diameter and seventy five feet high, mostly two leaved pines which hold their seeds for several years after they are ripe.
"Yes," he bravely replied.
I therefore concluded to try to get him to the ship by short walks from one fire and resting place to another.
In passing around the shoulder of the highest pinnacle, where the rock was rapidly disintegrating and the danger of slipping was great, I shouted in a warning voice, "Be very careful here, this is dangerous."
The most interesting of the short excursions we made from Fort Wrangell was the one up the Stickeen River to the head of steam navigation.
It is about three hundred and fifty miles long, and is navigable for small steamers a hundred and fifty miles to Glenora, and sometimes to Telegraph Creek, fifteen miles farther.
We arrived before noon at the old trading post called "Buck's" in front of the Stickeen Glacier, and remained long enough to allow the few passengers who wished a nearer view to cross the river to the terminal moraine.
After scrambling to an outstanding point that commands a view of it from top to bottom, to make sure that it was not interrupted by sheer precipices, I concluded that with great care and the digging of slight footholds he could be slid down to the glacier, where I could lay him on his back and perhaps be able to set his arms.
The birch is common on the lower slopes and is very effective, its round, leafy, pale green head contrasting with the dark, narrow spires of the conifers and giving a striking character to the forest.
Then, with a man holding down his shoulders, we succeeded in getting the bone into its socket, notwithstanding the inflammation and contraction of the muscles and ligaments.
This is no time for preaching!
The woods here are without a trace of those deep accumulations of mosses, leaves, and decaying trunks which make so damp and unclearable mass in the coast forests.
But to his surprise she floated through under the ice in safety.
The tops of some of them were almost covered with dense clusters of yellow and brown cones.
There is another handsome spruce hereabouts, Picea alba, very slender and graceful in habit, drooping at the top like a mountain hemlock.
It draws its sources from snowy mountains within fifteen or twenty miles of the coast, pours through a comparatively narrow canyon about two miles in width in a magnificent cascade, and expands in a broad fan five or six miles in width, separated from the Stickeen River by its broad terminal moraine, fringed with spruces and willows.
He proved to be a stout walker, and we made rapid progress across a brushy timbered flat and up the mountain slopes, open in some places, and in others thatched with dwarf firs, resting a minute here and there to refresh ourselves with huckleberries, which grew in abundance in open spots.
He ran down to our help, and while I steadied my trembling companion from behind, the captain kindly led him up the plank into the saloon, and made him drink a large glass of brandy.
Accordingly, I cheered him up, telling him I had found a way, but that it would require lots of time and patience.
"These foolish adventures are well enough for mr Muir," they said, "but you, mr Young, have a work to do; you have a family; you have a church, and you have no right to risk your life on treacherous peaks and precipices."
I therefore bound it closely to his side, and asked him if in his exhausted and trembling condition he was still able to walk.
I found, however, that this was impossible in such a place. I therefore tied his arms to his sides with my suspenders and necktie, to prevent as much as possible inflammation from movement.
What did it mean?
If you want my money, take it; if you want my life, I will give it to you with my own hand.
It is my last entreaty."
The eyes I had seen close, as I had supposed, forever, were now open, and she was looking at me with a smile that has never left my memory, and never will.
As by one impulse men and women broke into a tumult.
But no man can furnish what he does not possess, and the few final minutes before noon passed by without any addition being made to the facts which had already been presented for general consideration.
"I have obtruded myself into this inquiry and now ask to be heard by this jury, because no man knows more than I do of the manner and cause of Agatha Webb's death.
You don't know what you are doing.
She was not murdered."
"This, as God lives, is the truth concerning the wound found in the breast of this never to be forgotten woman."
An unexpected and pitiful sight awaited me.
But as these faces were those of Agnes Halliday and Amabel Page, he soon recognised that his own judgment was not at fault, and that notwithstanding outward appearances and the languid interest shown in the now lagging proceedings, the moment presaged an event full of unseen but vital consequence.
Sweetwater, noting it, and the vivid contrast it offered to Frederick's air of depression, felt that his return had been well timed.
"I did not understand her.
"Must have fallen when we did, for I never heard her voice after the first scream.
"I have made an assertion," said he, "before God and before this jury. To make it seem a credible one I shall have to tell my own story from the beginning.
This is very likely true, and those steps were probably mine, for after leaving the house by the garden door, I came directly down the main road to the corner of the lane running past mrs Webb's cottage.
The coroner was astounded; everyone was astounded.
Then mr Sutherland struggled to his feet, cast one last look around him, and disappeared through a door which had opened like magic before him.
Why, then, I should have thought of going to her in the great strait in which I found myself on that day, I cannot say.
When I came to myself, and that must have been very soon, I found that the blow of which I had been such a horrified witness had not yet proved fatal.
"This was a condition of things for which I was not prepared.
Then and not till then did Frederick move forward.
She was too good!
"I had expected to find a jovial group of friends in her little ground parlour, or at least to hear the sound of merry voices and laughter in the rooms above; but no sounds of any sort awaited me; indeed the house seemed strangely silent for one so fully lighted, and, astonished at this, I pushed the door ajar at my left and looked in.
"You are," was the firm response.
I could not bear it.
I want hundreds-thousands-now, now, to save myself! Disgrace, shame, prison await me if I don't have them.
The old fear, which we understand, if Sweetwater did not, had again seized the victim of Amabel's ambition, and under her eye, which was blazing full upon him now with a fell and steady purpose, he found his right hand stealing toward the left in the significant action she expected.
Moral strength and that tenacity of purpose which only comes from years of self control were too lately awakened in his breast to sustain him now.
"'No, no, Frederick!
No one had expected anything from him, and instinctively every eye turned towards Amabel to see how she was affected by his action.
But I shall speak of her again.
You could not bear it. Later, if you will wait for me in one of these rooms, I will repeat my tale in your ears, but go now.
Better to yield than fall headlong into the pit one word of hers would open.
It was a solemn assertion, but it failed to convince the crowd before him.
"'Give, then!
Don't stain yours-don't-'
There was a silence; no one ventured a dissent, no one so much as made a gesture of disapproval.
Yet how could I hope to lure her down stairs without noise?
It was more, infinitely more, than anyone there had expected.
As the slow, hesitating strokes rang out, Sweetwater saw Frederick yield to a sudden but most profound emotion.
"Go!" he whispered, but in so thrilling a tone it was heard to the remotest corner of the room.
The moment was intense.
Miss Page, who will, I am sure, pardon the introduction of her name into this narrative, has taken pains to declare to you that in the expedition she herself made into town that evening, she followed some person's steps down hill.
The expected guests had failed to arrive, and he, tired out with waiting, had fallen into a doze at the board.
dr Talbot, and you, gentlemen of the jury, in the face of God and man, I here declare that mrs Webb, in my presence and before my eyes, gave to herself the blow which has robbed us all of a most valuable life.
mr Frederick Sutherland, will you take the stand?"
"Let me be put on my oath.
He had not meant to yield, but now that the moment had come, now that he must at once and forever choose between a course that led simply to personal unhappiness and one that involved not only himself, but those dearest to him, in disgrace and sorrow, he felt himself weaken to the point of clutching at whatever would save him from the consequences of confession.
As the witness sat down the clock began to strike.
Take them and let them pave your way to a better life.
Still, this would not seem to be reason enough for me to intrude upon her late at night with a plea for a large loan of money, had I not been in a desperate condition of mind, which made any attempt seem reasonable that promised relief from the unendurable burden of a pressing and disreputable debt.
Am I allowed to do so, mr Coroner?"
It was the last day of the inquest, and to many it bade fair to be the least interesting.
Her blood and Batsy's shriek from the adjoining room swam through my consciousness, and then she fell, as I supposed, dead upon the floor, and I, in scarcely better case, fell also.
Seated at a table set with abundance of untasted food, I saw the master of the house with his head sunk forward on his arms, asleep.
Having already seen from the hillside the light burning in her upper windows, I felt encouraged to proceed, and so hastened on till I came to the gate on High Street.
Next moment the door opened, and Frederick and his father came in.
It's all calumny!
Then I lifted her and laid her where you found her, on the sofa.
Finally, she gave me a key, and pointing out where the money lay hidden, bade me carry it away as her last gift, together with the package of letters I would find with it.
I promised, and with perfect peace in her face, she pointed to the dagger in her breast.
She must let impulse have its way.
This feeling was shared by others, and a reaction set in in Frederick's favour, which even affected the officials who were conducting the inquiry.
Impossible!
"Oh, the fairy tale!"
I knelt before her in anguish.
"It is a sacred story to me, and if you must know it, let it be from her own words in the letters she left behind her.
Incredible!
She had not a pure enough heart to do so.
Of the questions and answers which now passed between him and the various members of the jury I need give no account.
The wonder, the incredulity you manifest are my best excuse for my long delay in revealing the secret entrusted to me by this dying woman."
Yet how thrilling it had been to hear him plead his cause so well!
You have heard him call me son; with what words shall I overthrow his confidence in the truth and rectitude of his long buried wife and make him know in his old age that he has wasted years of patience upon one who was not of his blood or lineage?
Seeing this, and realising his opportunity, Frederick at once entered into the explanations for which each heart there panted.
She would not let me draw it out.
"When I left my dead mother's side I was in such a state of mind that I passed with scarcely so much as a glance the room where my new found father sat sleeping.
But there was no outburst.
No woman of the mental or physical strength of Agatha Webb would plant a dagger in her own breast just to prevent another person from committing a crime, were he lover, husband, or son.
For, however other people might feel, she did not for a moment believe his story.
Frederick's voice broke as he proceeded in his self imposed task.
An awed silence greeted these words.
"The astounding fact which I have just communicated to you was made known by my mother, with the dagger still plunged in her breast.
Happily, she took the right stand at first.
To her all self sacrifice was an anomaly.
But I did not turn away.
It was almost worth the loss of her revenge to meet his look of hate, and dream of the possibility of turning it later into the old look of love.
"This will be overwhelming news to him who has cared for me since infancy.
We never thought of the expense of keeping up the lamp, Rebecca."
He needed the soap dreadfully as a present for his aunt."
At half past five one might have looked in at the Simpsons' windows, and seen the party at its height.
"What's that?" asked Miss Lydia politely.
If Abner was at home, I should think he'd been swappin' again," said Miss Miranda.
"I asked you who sold the soap to Adam Ladd?" resumed Miss Jane.
Well, you can go for an hour, and no more.
THE BANQUET LAMP
Remember it's as dark at six as it is at midnight Would you like to take along some Baldwin apples?
"It was mr Aladdin," whispered Rebecca, as they ran down the path to the gate.
"Well, there's one crop that never fails in Riverboro!"
"There's hope for him still, though," said Miss Jane smilingly; "for I don't s'pose he's more than thirty."
"It was a heavenly party," she cried, taking off her hat and cape.
"And, oh!
"I have peppermints and maple sugar," said Emma Jane.
"Don't tell me it's broken," exclaimed Rebecca.
"Why didn't you eat them?"
I have a handful of nuts and raisins and some apples."
"OUR selling the three hundred cakes," corrected Rebecca; "you did as much as i"
mrs Ladd has it stacked up in the shed chamber."
"Is that his real name?" queried Rebecca in astonishment.
What child had wonderful eyes, except the same Rebecca? and finally, was there ever a child in the world who could make a man buy soap by the hundred cakes, save Rebecca?
You never can let well enough alone, but want to be forever on the move."
Emma Jane and I sold the soap to mr Ladd."
"Rebecca, who was it that sold the three hundred cakes of soap to mr Ladd in North Riverboro?"
This time it was a full set of furs for mrs Ladd; and to think we can remember the time he was a barefoot boy without two shirts to his back!
"I've got no patience with such foolish goin's on."
"I didn't make a bad guess;" and she laughed softly to herself.
"He could get a wife in Riverboro if he was a hundred and thirty," remarked Miss Miranda.
The brass glistened like gold, and the crimson paper shade glowed like a giant ruby.
"They had a real Thanksgiving dinner; the doctor gave them sweet potatoes and cranberries and turnips; father sent a spare rib, and mrs Cobb a chicken and a jar of mince meat."
The Burnham sisters had gone and the two aunts were knitting.
I just sat at the gate and held the horse."
"Adam Ladd! then he's a Ladd, too; what fun!"
mr Tubbs brought it over from North Riverboro and said somebody sent an order by mail for it."
"Did you tease him, or make him buy it?"
"mr Ladd, in North Riverboro."
"Answer me, Rebecca."
"Yes, but WHOSE horse was it that took us to North Riverboro?
"No! oh, no! not that!
"It's my nuts and raisins from dinner," replied Rebecca, who never succeeded in keeping the most innocent action a secret from her aunt Miranda; "they're just what you gave me on my plate."
"Something awful has happened," panted Emma Jane.
What have you got in the pocket of that new dress that makes it sag down so?"
I knew Living would remember, too, so I took off my waterproof and wrapped it round my books for a baby; then I shouted, 'MY GOD!
r r r
Miss Dearborn gave her every sort of subject that she had ever been given herself: Cloud Pictures; Abraham Lincoln; Nature; Philanthropy; Slavery; Intemperance; Joy and Duty; Solitude; but with none of them did Rebecca seem to grapple satisfactorily.
Rebecca rose, overcome with secret laughter dread, and mortification; then in a low voice she read the couplet:--
A sudden light broke upon Rebecca's darkness.
"I don't see what makes you do it.
"It's a pity she's so plain looking," remarked mrs Cobb, blowing out the candle.
"Land, no, mother; there ain't no home'path 'bout Miss Parks-she drives all over the country."
"I wish sometimes that I could bridle Minnie's," murmured Rebecca, as she went to set the table for supper.
When her turn came to read she was obliged to confess she had written nothing.
And Eliza wasn't swearing when she said 'My God! the river!' It was more like praying."
When Joy and Duty clash, 'T is Joy must go to smash."
"You must stay after school and try again, Rebecca," she said, but she said it smilingly.
"PLAIN LOOKING, mother?" exclaimed her husband in astonishment.
It is the cat, the chips, and the milk pail that I don't like."
"Because I was talking about 'household tasks' in the sentence before, and it IS one of my household tasks.
'One opens a favorite book;' 'One's thoughts are a great comfort in solitude,' and so on."
All one's little household tasks keep one from being lonely.
"Yes, I don't like a cow in a composition," said the difficult Miss Dearborn.
"I don't think she's like the rest of us," responded Jane thoughtfully and with some anxiety in her pleasant face; "but whether it's for the better or the worse I can't hardly tell till she grows up.
SOLITUDE
One would fancy not.
THE RIVER!' just like that-the same as Eliza did in the play; then I leaped from puddle to puddle, and Living and Emma Jane pursued me like the bloodhounds.
When did they chase you up the road, and what were you doing?"
"That is better," Miss Dearborn answered, "though I cannot think 'going to smash' is a pretty expression for poetry."
"Stuff an' nonsense!" said Miranda "Speak for yourself.
"I know you do, Mirandy; but that don't MAKE you so," returned Jane with a smile.
The gentleman is waiting."
"J.
I had to walk without lifting my feet.
"There it is.
"What did Mam'selle think of that?"
A maid appeared at the door.
"Well-the glee club was last Thursday night."
"Better."
"Of course not.
Did you bring us some wedding cake?"
"Do your hair up-quick!"
"Oh, a dress suit, and collars, and-and things."
"Oh!" squealed Mae Mertelle.
Where'd you get it?"
"Adventures!" she called back excitedly.
"Oh, tell us, please.
"Is it locked?"
What's the matter with it?'
"But you didn't leave it."
"Where's some black silk, Patty?"
"I told you to put it up," said Priscilla.
"Looks like a man's," said Conny.
"What's in it?"
"Oh!" Conny murmured disappointedly.
I felt as though I were flirting with my grandfather.
"Why not?" bristled Patty.
"Where'd you get it?"
"That was the best part of it!" Patty affirmed.
Do you s'pose he opened it?" asked Conny.
"I hope it looked all right?"
"Well?" they inquired in a breath.
"Where on earth did you get it, Patty?"
"Did you tell the Dowager?"
"Oh, Patty!" a gasp went around the room.
"You surely didn't speak to him?"
There's the study bell."
"He wears blue silk suspenders."
I think you're beastly!"
"Oh, Patty!
"And what did you wear at the wedding?"
"Young!--Wait till you see me with my hair done up."
"It is."
"What did she say?"
"Jermyn Hilliard, Junior?" Priscilla asked breathlessly.
"Then what happened?" Priscilla asked.
"Are those his real eyebrows or were they blacked?"
"I'm afraid he did.
"Do you hear?
Then I remembered him.
You said you would.
"Why, this is just like getting money from home."
When we gathered up the corners of his blanket and lifted him, he tried to sit upright, and cried out, "You're taking me to the front, aren't you?
He was dead, but he was not defeated.
"You are too late, madame; the orders are issued."
Have they loved me?
"Well, I own it."
I have always found them; and more,--I repeat it with joy, with triumph,--I have always found some proof of human perversity or error.
"Do you intend opening the door?" said the baroness.
Has the law any eyes to witness your grief?
"At least keep him there till my daughter be married."
You could not help thinking of it, and saying to yourself, 'you, who pursue crime so vindictively, answer now, why are there unpunished crimes in your dwelling?'" The baroness became pale.
Come, forget him for a moment, and instead of pursuing him let him go."
"Who am I? You know me well enough."
We will leave the banker contemplating the enormous magnitude of his debt before the phantom of bankruptcy, and follow the baroness, who after being momentarily crushed under the weight of the blow which had struck her, had gone to seek her usual adviser, Lucien Debray.
"No one; his parents are unknown."
"Oh, how extraordinary!
What am I?--the law.
Has the law ears to be melted by your sweet voice?
"Your daughter will be married to morrow, if not to day-in a week, if not to morrow; and I do not think you can regret the intended husband of your daughter."
Have they spared me?
"I was not thinking of that," replied Madame Danglars quickly.
You will tell me that I am a living being, and not a code-a man, and not a volume.
The Law.
"A mischance?" repeated the baroness.
"The weakness of a murderer!"
Your name?"
She had not long to wait; directly afterwards the door was opened wide enough to admit her, and when she had passed through, it was again shut.
She would invoke the past, recall old recollections; she would supplicate him by the remembrance of guilty, yet happy days.
And now, what do you want?"
Villefort's conduct, therefore, upon reflection, appeared to the baroness as if shaped for their mutual advantage.
"Oh, this is too much!"
"His dishonor reflects upon us."
No, madame, they struck me, always struck me!
'Let us move on,' said Block; 'tis but a little distance now to go, and the heat is past already.
Once get to the bottom safe, and we can laugh at Posse, and hue and cry, and at the King's Crown itself.
Behind one of these walls, broken down in places, but held together with straggling ivy, and buttressed here and there with a bramble bush, Elzevir put me down at length and said, 'I am beat, and can carry thee no farther for this present, though there is not now much farther to go.
We had slept longer than we thought, for the sun was westering fast, and though the rest had refreshed me, my leg had grown stiff, and hurt the more in dangling when we started again.
'What! have you dropped your shot flask too?' asked the boy.
A minute later he said: 'The boy is coming straight for the wall; we shall have to show ourselves'; and while he spoke there was a rattle of falling stones, where the boy was partly climbing and partly pulling down the dry wall, and so Elzevir stood up.
They will not be back for some time yet, and, when they come, will not think to search closely for us hereabouts; but that we cannot risk, and must get clear away.
The boy's eyes twinkled, and so would mine at so valuable a piece, and he took out from his pocket a battered cowskin flask.
The cliff face was gleaming white, the sea tawny inshore, but purest blue outside, with the straight sunpath across it, spangled and gleaming like a mackerel's back.
No time was wasted in words; Elzevir had the flask in his pocket, and the boy was biting the crown.
So we gained a sorry matchlock, slugs, and powder, and the boy walked off over the furrow, whistling with his hand in his pocket, and a guinea and a crown piece in his hand.
When we got there all was dark, but he stepped off into a narrow opening on the right hand, and walked on as if he knew the way.
He whispered to me to lie still, so that it might not be perceived my leg was broken; and the boy replied:
Thus he came safe without stumble to the bottom of the pit.
Only twice did he set me down at a turning, while he took out his tinder box and lit a match; but at length the darkness became less dark, and I saw that we were in a large cave or room, into which the light came through some opening at the far end.
Maybe you've seen a flask in walking through the furrows?'
'Scaring rooks for Farmer Topp,' was the answer.
'No, I have seen no flask; but very like have not come the same way as you, being sent out here from Lowermoigne; and as for powder, I have little left, and must save that for the rooks, or shall get a beating for my pains.'
The boy looked frightened, and made as if he would run off, but Elzevir passed him the time of day in a civil voice, and he stopped and gave it back.
Then from the bottom of this shaft there spread out narrow passages or tunnels, mostly six feet high, but sometimes only three or four, and in these the marble is dug.
'Come,' said Elzevir, 'give me a charge or two, and there is half a crown for thee.' And he took the coin out of his pocket and showed it.
Although I knew little of these quarries, and certainly was in evil plight to take note of anything at that time, yet afterwards I learnt much about them.
But if we fall, why, we shall fall together, and outwit their cunning.
And Maskew, too, will keep them in check a little, while they try to bring the life back to so good a man.
And then the path grew steeper and steeper, and Elzevir went slower and slower, till at last he spoke:
Then Elzevir spoke.
Pluck up thy courage, keep thy eyes to the cliff, and forward.'
Five minutes later Elzevir stepped on to the cliff top, with me upon his back.
We were safe.
'john, I am going to stop; but open not thy eyes till I have set thee down and bid thee.'
But for how short a time!
In a minute I knew from Elzevir's steps that he had left the turf and was upon the chalk.
Then I called out to Elzevir, and he, guessing what had come over me, cries to turn upon my side, and press my belly to the cliff.
I shut my eyes firm again, and thus we moved along another spell, mounting still and feeling the wind still freshening.
'Tush!' he cried; 'it is thy heart that fails thee, and 'tis too late now to change counsel.
Just at the end of this flat ledge, farthest from where the bridle path leads down, but not a hundred yards from where we stand, there is a sheep track leading up the cliff.
But have a care to keep thy outer hand near to the inner, and the balance of thy body to the cliff, for there is no room to dance hornpipes here.
Then he told me to stop, for that the way grew wider and he would pick me up again.
For the Zigzag started off as a fair enough chalk path, but in a few paces narrowed down till it was but a whiter thread against the grey white cliff face, and afterwards turned sharply back, crossing a hundred feet direct above our heads.
And yet, if thou fear'st not, I will still try it.
At length he said that we were come to the last turn of the path, and he must set me down once more.
But as I crept along, I relaxed care for a moment, and my eyes wandered from the cliff side and looked down.
He knelt, and rolled down the leg of my stocking; but though he only moved my foot ever so little, it caused me sharp pain, for feeling was coming back after the first numbness of the shot.
We have fifteen minutes yet to win or lose with, and if we gain the cliff top in that time we shall have an hour's start, or more, for they will take all that to search the under cliff.
And Elzevir, for all he was so strong, could not pull a helpless lump backwards up that path.
Is the bone broken?'
Yet I could not, but answered: 'I cannot, I cannot; if I open my eyes, or move hand or foot, I shall fall on the rocks below.'
"It is true.
Rollin was relieved when Rachel spoke.
Rollin spoke with enthusiasm.
"Yes.
At last Rollin said: "I thank you.
Rollin trembled.
One thing I have found out.
His agitation was greater than he could control. Rachel could not help seeing it.
Josiana and David carried on a flirtation of a particular shade.
The novels of those days carried lovers and engaged couples to that kind of stage which was the most becoming.
She must eventually marry Lord David, since such was the royal pleasure.
In these sonnets he declared that to possess Josiana would be to rise to the stars, which did not prevent his always putting the ascent off to the following year. He waited in the antechamber outside Josiana's heart; and this suited the convenience of both.
From the stream had risen the first jet of her destiny; but the spring was royal.
Degradation of rank, an aristocratic prelude, began what the revolution was to complete.
Did they hate each other?
In admiring her you felt yourself becoming a pagan and a lackey.
To surrender on the score of gallantry implies learning, recalls Menalcas and Amaryllis, and is almost a literary act.
Lady Jane Grey had carried fashion to the point of knowing Hebrew.
Men! oh, fie! a god only would be worthy of her, or a monster.
Thus it was that while a Catholic amongst her intimate friends and the refined of both sexes, she was outwardly a Protestant for the benefit of the riffraff.
She would have been a Puseyite in the present day.
She was a little too heavy for her cloud.
Why hasten the conclusion?
Besides, Josiana, while she knew herself to be a bastard, felt herself a princess, and carried her authority over him with a high tone in all their arrangements.
You enjoy all the good things belonging to the official Episcopalian church, and later on you die, like Grotius, in the odour of Catholicity, having the glory of a mass being said for you by le Pere Petau.
At times her sleepy and voluptuous way of dragging out the end of her phrases was like the creeping of a tiger's paws in the jungle.
Lady Josiana said, "It is a bore that I should be obliged to marry Lord David; I, who would desire nothing better than to be in love with him!"
A pretension to divinity not admitted creates affectation.
The advantage of prudes is that they disorganize the human race.
Forty; 'tis a marked period.
Biblical precedent goes so far as to speak of a child who was called Ebnehaquem or Melilechet-that is to say, the Wise Man's son.
It is true (for manners re echo each other) that in the sixteenth century Smeton's nightcap had been found under Anne Boleyn's pillow.
Why object to such manners?
She shuts herself up in Eden with Satan.
The temple shrivels into the boudoir.
She dwelt in a halo of glory, half wishing to descend from it, and perhaps feeling curious to know what a fall was like.
Towards seventeen o five, although Lady Josiana was twenty three and Lord David forty four, the wedding had not yet taken place, and that for the best reasons in the world.
All Josiana's instincts impelled her to yield herself gallantly rather than to give herself legally.
To have no tie until as late as possible appeared to him to be a prolongation of youth. Middle aged young men abounded in those rakish times.
The recoils of pride in the direction opposed to our vices lead us to those of a contrary nature.
It is a protection.
There was between them a tacit agreement neither to conclude nor to break off the engagement. They eluded each other.
The Duchess Josiana had a peculiarity, less rare than it is supposed. One of her eyes was blue and the other black.
She was, in the insolence of high birth, tempting and inaccessible.
To have made her nudity a torment, ever eluding a pursuing Tantalus, would have been an amusement to her.
It is a line of circumvallation with a ditch.
And then woman feels her weak point guarded by all that casuistry of gallantry which takes the place of scruples in prudes.
It was not very far off the time when Jelyotte was seen publicly sitting, in broad daylight, on the bed of the Marquise d'Epinay.
Lord David was handsome, so much the better. The danger in being handsome is being insipid; and that he was not.
Josiana was in everything-in birth, in beauty, in irony, in brilliancy-almost a queen.
That is the climax.
He who might have looked upon Josiana nude would have perceived her outlines only through a surrounding glory.
Walpole and Dubois are not unlike. Marlborough was fighting against his former king, james the second., to whom it was said he had sold his sister, Miss Churchill.
To be "the flesh" and to be woman are two different things.
CHAPTER three.
Nowadays England, whose Loyola is named Wesley, casts down her eyes a little at the remembrance of that past age.
Flesh, when it attains a certain degree of beauty, has almost a claim to the right of nudity; it conceals itself in its own dazzling charms as in a veil.
Josiana felt herself majestic and material.
She trod upon hearts. She was earthly.
In default of thunderclaps there is impertinence.
She usurped rather than charmed.
In making the forbidden the permitted fruit, Eve fell; in making the permitted the forbidden fruit, she triumphs.
It was a necessity, doubtless; but what a pity!
Lord David was handsome, but that was over and above the bargain.
Gallantry found its convenience in a certain medley of ranks.
At court all admired the good taste of this delay.
An espousal is a dreary absorption of brilliancy.
Where a woman is vulnerable, on the side of pity, for instance, which so readily turns to love, Josiana was not.
She is vexed at the memory, yet proud of it.
She had neither lovers nor chastity.
One day she said to Swift, "You people fancy that you know what scorn is." "You people" meant the human race.
Morally, Josiana brought to one's mind the line-
They did not love, they pleased, each other.
It was the dawn of the eighteenth century.
The Duchess Josiana Latinized. Then (another fine thing) she was secretly a Catholic; after the manner of her uncle, Charles the second., rather than her father, james the second.
Hers was a noble neck, a splendid bosom, heaving harmoniously over a royal heart, a glance full of life and light, a countenance pure and haughty, and who knows?
It was the fashion.
She was extravagant in gold lace.
She had the self possession of a goddess.
Gluttony affects delicacy, a grimace of disgust conceals cupidity.
Elizabeth was more than English-she was Anglican.
Never, covering her frailty by her charms, and her weakness by her omnipotence, has she claimed absolution more imperiously.
She was well read and accomplished.
She thought little of her reputation, but much of her glory.
Beyond all, keep the human species at a distance.
Caliban, fashionable and magnificent, would distance Ariel, poor.
On the other hand, Josiana had dreams.
Their kinship is visible in the fop.
She walled herself round with pride.
Hers was a cumbrous beauty.
Her origin had been bastardy and the ocean.
She rode on a man's saddle, notwithstanding the invention of side saddles, introduced into England in the fourteenth century by Anne, wife of Richard the second.
To make Love prosaically decent, how gross! to deprive it of all impropriety, how dull!
Her hair was of that tinge which might be called red gold.
At fifty five Lord Charles Gerrard, Baron Gerrard, one of the Gerrards of Bromley, filled London with his successes.
Josiana was "the flesh." Nothing could be more resplendent.
He addressed sonnets to her, which Josiana sometimes read.
She disdained intrigues; but she would not have been displeased had she been supposed to have engaged in some, provided that the objects were uncommon, and proportioned to the merits of one so highly placed.
Every prude puts on an air of repugnance.
below the surface was there not, in a semi transparent and misty depth, an undulating, supernatural prolongation, perchance deformed and dragon like-a proud virtue ending in vice in the depth of dreams.
She discoursed on Locke; she was polite; she was suspected of knowing Arabic.
She was very tall-too tall.
They deprive it of the honour of their adherence.
Lord David was ripening.
Far from it; but what cannot escape from you inspires you with no haste to obtain it.
Lord David, on his side, bowed down before the fascinations of the Duchess Josiana-a maiden without spot or scruple, haughty, inaccessible, and audacious.
Mary Stuart, less concerned with the church and more with the woman part of the question, had little respect for her sister Elizabeth, and wrote to her as queen to queen and coquette to prude: "Your disinclination to marriage arises from your not wishing to lose the liberty of being made love to." Mary Stuart played with the fan, Elizabeth with the axe.
Bolingbroke was in his meridian, and Richelieu in his dawn.
Such were the models of the day.
Not having the power to be a goddess, she is an idol.
In the eighteenth century the wife bolts out her husband.
Josiana was deferring the hour of this subjection as long as she could.
Hence the deep respect of the Episcopalian Church for that queen-respect resented by the Church of Rome, which counterbalanced it with a dash of excommunication.
Princely unconstraint has the privilege of experiment, and what is frailty in a plebeian is only frolic in a duchess.
The ancient comparison of flesh to marble is absolutely false.
She was a skin deep Papist.
She shut herself up in the arrogance of the exceptional circumstances of her rank, meditating, perhaps, all the while, some sudden lapse from it.
That which is biblical may well be Anglican.
He possessed others.
The subtile is derived from the sensual.
It is unbecoming to be married-fades one's ribbons and makes one look old.
Josiana appreciated Lord David, and showed him off.
England was a sketch of what France was during the regency.
The maiden a sovereign, the wife a subject, such was the old English notion.
She will consent, but she disdains-for the present.
She washed her face, arms, shoulders, and neck, in sugar candy, diluted in white of egg, after the fashion of Castile.
Josiana thought great things of his horses, his dogs, his losses at play, his mistresses.
She regretted that Hercules was dead. She lived in some undefined expectation of a voluptuous and supreme ideal.
Night and day were mingled in her look.
They were rivals, besides, in literature.
She appeared to have emerged from the foam.
Her ambition was this-to show herself capable of impossibilities.
In the mouth of Sixtus the fifth, when anathematizing Elizabeth, malediction turned to madrigal.
The young and pretty Duchess of Buckingham, Countess of Coventry, made a fool of herself for love of the handsome Thomas Bellasys, Viscount Falconberg, who was sixty seven.
Not that she was unfeeling.
Mary Stuart composed French verses; Elizabeth translated Horace.
She had a fancy for Lord David.
Adam is left outside.
The beauty of flesh consists in not being marble: its beauty is to palpitate, to tremble, to blush, to bleed, to have firmness without hardness, to be white without being cold, to have its sensations and its infirmities; its beauty is to be life, and marble is death.
To be too much on the defensive points to a secret desire for attack; the shy woman is not strait laced.
Josiana wanted to remain free, David to remain young.
Never had a passion approached her, yet she had sounded them all.
He had mistresses.
Sometimes she wore an embroidered cloth jacket like a bachelor.
three.
Nevertheless, she might find it amusing to plan a fall for herself.
They grew gray as young fops.
These fine ladies, moreover, knew Latin.
She had eyes which were too intelligible.
A woman handed over to you by a notary, how commonplace!
To err is a diversion.
It was the excessive effort to be chaste which made her a prude.
She felt such a leaning towards immodesty that she was a prude.
The wig was an accomplice: later on, powder became the auxiliary.
With all that she was a prude.
She was plump, fresh, strong, and rosy, with immense boldness and wit.
An uneven match.
This is the pleasant view to take of religion.
This is a point of the greatest importance.
Although plump and healthy, Josiana was, we repeat, a perfect prude.
Her pupils were made for love and hate, for happiness and misery.
He betted, boxed, ran into debt.
He did not perceive this, and in truth he looked no more than thirty.
To be fashionable is everything.
Men were equalized by the same vices as they were later on, perhaps, by the same ideas.
Lord David, then, did not wear a wig, and did wear cowhide boots.
To fulfil this duty all means were held good.
If it were poor people who did these things, they would be sent to jail; but they are done by pleasant young gentlemen.
One was "a dancing master;" that is to say he made the rustics frisk about by pricking the calves of their legs with the point of his sword.
Lord David would choose a Hercules-massive as a rock, tall as a tower-and make him his child.
Under james the second. a young millionaire lord who had during the night set fire to a thatched cottage-a feat which made all London burst with laughter-was proclaimed the King of Fun.
The members agreed to fight, not about a beautiful woman, but about an ugly man.
This club was still in existence in the beginning of the nineteenth century, and Mirabeau was elected an honorary member.
Lord David attended prize fights, and was their living law.
Having once adopted the Cyclops, he never left him.
The first, intoxicated by the novelty, may ignore the danger; the second sees the abyss, and rushes into it.
The gentleman behind him chastised him for this by a prick of his sword, which made him spring round; another prick in the back warned the fellow that one of noble blood was behind him, and so on, each one wounding him in his turn.
In the street he never allowed him to leave his sight, keeping him out of every danger-runaway horses, the wheels of carriages, drunken soldiers, pretty girls.
Such were, towards the beginning of the eighteenth century, the pastimes of the rich idlers of London.
Since the restoration of Charles the second. revolutionary clubs had been abolished.
He watched over his virtue.
All this science, however, did not render him a pedant, nor destroy his ease of manner in society.
He insulted two ladies.
Fun would have been proud to have broken the arm of the Venus of Milo.
They found some street porter with a wide chest and a stupid countenance.
The Mohawk surpassed the Fun.
No one could train like him.
Lord David was a member of the Beefsteak Club, the Surly Club, and of the Splitfarthing Club, of the Cross Club, the Scratchpenny Club, of the Sealed Knot, a Royalist Club, and of the Martinus Scribblerus, founded by Swift, to take the place of the Rota, founded by Milton.
It was marvellous to see Lord David dress a cock for the pit.
All, moreover, had their coats turned the wrong way, for luck.
Cocks lay hold of each other by the feathers, as men by the hair.
There was the Hell fire Club, where they played at being impious.
So much for the enemy's eyes, he would say.
He taught him the blow with the fist which breaks the teeth, and the twist of the thumb which gouges out the eye.
Lord David Dirry Moir was passionately fond of open air exhibitions, of shows, of circuses with wild beasts, of the caravans of mountebanks, of clowns, tumblers, merrymen, open air farces, and the wonders of a fair. The true noble is he who smacks of the people.
Fun is to farce what pepper is to salt.
Lord David flung himself into the abyss of no longer wearing a wig.
They called him Tom Jim Jack.
In many places in England and in English possessions-at Guernsey, for instance-your house is now and then somewhat damaged during the night, or a fence is broken, or the knocker twisted off your door.
There was the Butting Club, so called from its members butting folks with their heads.
Such great things made him a mark for public admiration.
The Mohawk Club had one great object-to injure.
It was the rich who acted thus towards the poor.
What could be more touching?
Every member of the Mohawk Club was bound to possess an accomplishment.
The reaction against the wig was beginning.
In this he excelled.
Thus he was preparing himself for public life to which he was to be called later on.
He held his ground.
This looked serious.
They offered him, and compelled him, if necessary, to accept a pot of porter, in return for which he was to allow them to butt him with their heads four times in the chest, and on this they betted.
Lord David, therefore, made his cock as bald as possible.
One day a man, a great brute of a Welshman named Gogangerdd, expired at the third butt.
Cockfighting owed him some praiseworthy improvements.
To the republican clubs had succeeded monarchical clubs.
He played the blackguard in a masterly style: when necessary, he used his fists.
This maternal solicitude continually brought some new perfection into the pupil's education.
Just like any one else, he would gaily set fire to a cot of woodwork and thatch, and just scorch those within; but he would rebuild their houses in stone.
It was fun to cut a square hole in the Holbein at Hampton Court.
It was a joust of sacrilege.
One was unmarried-he gave her a portion; the other was married-he had her husband appointed chaplain.
Do evil for evil's sake was the programme.
Lord David was one of the few referees whom they dared not thrash.
Lord David Dirry Moir brought into all these institutions his magnificent and liberal spirit.
In becoming a Mohawk the members took an oath to be hurtful.
When the man, closed round by the circle of swords and covered with blood, had turned and danced about enough, they ordered their servants to beat him with sticks, to change the course of his ideas.
With a pair of scissors he cut off all the feathers from the tail and from the head to the shoulders, and all those on the neck.
There was the Fun Club.
The poor devils in the cottage were saved in their night clothes.
It was he who invented the athlete's admirable rules, afterwards reproduced by Morley.
So much less for the enemy's beak, he used to say.
The most fashionable of the clubs was presided over by an emperor, who wore a crescent on his forehead, and was called the Grand Mohawk.
Under this name he was famous and very popular amongst the dregs of the people.
On occasions of great performances it was he who had the stakes driven in and ropes stretched, and who fixed the number of feet for the ring.
The idlers of Paris had theirs.
The pugilist whose trainer he consented to become was sure to win.
Though handsome, he belonged to the Ugly Club.
This club was dedicated to deformity.
For this reason no complaint was possible.
Those manners have not altogether disappeared.
The laws against Ireland, emanating from Queen Anne, were atrocious. Anne was born in sixteen sixty four, two years before the great fire of London, on which the astrologers (there were some left, and Louis the fourteenth. was born with the assistance of an astrologer, and swaddled in a horoscope) predicted that, being the elder sister of fire, she would be queen.
She was stubborn and weak.
She liked surprises, which is extremely woman like. Anne was a pattern-just sketched roughly-of the universal Eve.
Then the people love him for being so rich.
For centuries England suffered under that process of tyranny which gave the lie to all the old charters of freedom, and out of which France especially gathered a cause of triumph and indignation.
She was greedily fond of the flat Zealand gingerbread cakes.
An ordinary woman was Queen Anne.
She rather liked fun, teasing, and practical jokes.
Although the England of the period quarrels and fights France, she imitates her and draws enlightenment from her; and the light on the facade of England is French light.
Like him, she plays at a great reign; she has her monuments, her arts, her victories, her captains, her men of letters, her privy purse to pension celebrities, her gallery of chefs d'oeuvre, side by side with those of his Majesty.
To be godchild of the Pope was no longer possible in England. A mere primate is but a poor sort of godfather.
What good was a Josiana?
good-natured, her ideal was to allow none to despair, and to worry all.
England was sending a squadron to the East Indies, and a squadron to the West of Spain under Admiral Leake, without mentioning the reserve of four hundred sail, under Admiral Sir Cloudesley Shovel.
Six farthings were struck during her reign.
Her whole policy was cracked.
It was felt that he was about to give up his hold over Acadia, saint Christopher, and Newfoundland, and that he would be but too happy if England would only tolerate the King of France fishing for cod at Cape Breton.
It begins in an ass; it ends in a lion.
Her short sight extended to her mind.
Simplicity of mankind!
In it there is enough to deceive the eye; add God save the Queen, which might have been taken from Lulli, and the ensemble becomes an illusion.
It was the interval between Hochstadt and Ramillies, and the first of these victories was foretelling the second.
More of a Puritan than anything else, she would, nevertheless, have liked to devote herself to stage plays.
Her father, james the second., was candid and cruel; she was brutal.
As a wife she was faithless and faithful, having favourites to whom she gave up her heart, and a husband for whom she kept her bed.
She excelled in bringing about great catastrophes from little causes.
One is sufficient for a queen.
Under her reign, otherwise relatively mild, pressing for the fleet was carried on with extreme violence-a gloomy evidence that the Englishman is a subject rather than a citizen.
Still the whole was effeminate, and Anne's Pere Tellier was called Sarah Jennings.
Not a personage is missing.
A part of her religion she derived from that ugliness.
The rest of her person was indifferently formed.
That favourable regard of the chains which bind their neighbours sometimes attains to enthusiasm for the despot next door.
A detail to be noted.
One idiotic habit of the people is to attribute to the king what they do themselves.
How great is this myrmidon! he is on my back. A dwarf has an excellent way of being taller than a giant: it is to perch himself on his shoulders.
But there is nothing delicate in the reigns of these women. The lines are heavy.
Meanwhile, she had taken Gibraltar, and was taking Barcelona.
It was an unpleasant resemblance. Josiana had a right to say to Anne, "My mother was at least as good as yours." At court no one said so, but they evidently thought it.
She was proud of being fat.
She drank.
Whose the glory?
But she would have left him a god.
Beyond a burst of merriment now and then, almost as ponderous as her anger, she lived in a sort of taciturn grumble and a grumbling silence.
Secondly, because she thought the Duchess Josiana's betrothed handsome.
She considered it against good morals. As for herself, she was ugly.
Certain relationships are detrimental.
The equestrian statue, reserved for kings alone, is an excellent figure of royalty: the horse is the people.
She had an absurd academy of music, copied after that of France.
They fight.
France excludes them.
There was another grievance, Josiana's "improper" birth.
CHAPTER five
Her husband was a Dane, thoroughbred.
They pay.
At the same time she was mild at bottom.
Could she have made Apollo a hunchback, it would have delighted her.
Anne did not like women to be pretty.
No quality of hers attained to virtue, none to vice.
But that the giant should allow it, there is the wonder; and that he should admire the height of the dwarf, there is the folly.
The king's.
Why this Josiana?
She was violent, a brawler. Nobody more awkward than Anne in directing affairs of state.
Her skin was white and fine; she displayed a great deal of it.
Why?
Parliament having voted a patriotic loan of thirty four million francs of annuities, there had been a crush at the Exchequer to subscribe it.
England was about to impose upon him the shame of demolishing himself the fortifications of Dunkirk.
As to their immaculate virtue, England is tenacious of it, and we are not going to oppose the idea.
That the lion should relapse into the donkey is astonishing; but it is so.
Words escaped from her which had to be guessed at.
Her court, too, was a cortege, with the features of a triumph, an order and a march.
The king receives a crown from the poor, and returns them a farthing.
Queen Anne bore a little grudge to the Duchess Josiana, for two reasons. Firstly, because she thought the Duchess Josiana handsome.
To an ugly queen, a pretty duchess is not an agreeable sister.
The English under that royalty born of a revolution possessed as much liberty as they could lay hands on between the Tower of London, into which they put orators, and the pillory, into which they put writers. Anne spoke a little Danish in her private chats with her husband, and a little French in her private chats with Bolingbroke.
She had fits of rage.
From a certain point of view, the reign of Anne appears a reflection of the reign of Louis the fourteenth.
The king's.
In Anne's time no meeting was allowed without the permission of two justices of the peace.
Only that the horse becomes transfigured by degrees.
It had resumed the pack saddle, idolatry of the crown.
Perhaps there is no other.
There is a reason at once.
To that sketch had fallen that chance, the throne.
It was a miniature copy of all the great men of Versailles, not giants themselves.
She had often a rough word in her mouth; a little more, and she would have sworn like Elizabeth.
It is gross grandeur and gross good nature.
The whole is solemn and pompous, and the Windsor of the time has a faded resemblance to Marly.
She had one beauty-the well-developed neck of a Niobe.
As a Christian she was a heretic and a bigot.
She had the humiliation of having only Gilbert, Archbishop of Canterbury, for godfather.
The assembly of twelve persons, were it only to eat oysters and drink porter, was a felony.
She was a clumsy coquette and a chaste one.
She was gay, kindly, august-to a certain extent.
She was bringing into her ports in triumph ten Spanish line of battle ships, and many a galleon laden with gold.
What had put it into her head to be born?
A Tory, she governed by the Whigs-like a woman, like a mad woman.
Nothing.
Wretched gibberish; but the height of English fashion, especially at court, was to talk French.
As they will. Be it so.
Let us add that she bore her a grudge for being her sister.
What great things accomplished!
Why was she a Protestant?
Heat sugar and it will boil.
Not from choice, however.
Queen Anne, as we have just observed, was popular.
When a whim of authority took hold of her, she called it giving a stir with the poker.
She had a narrow forehead, sensual lips, fleshy cheeks, large eyes, short sight.
There was something of the Sphinx in this goose.
Nothing!--that is all that is asked of the sovereign of England.
Then it throws its rider, and you have sixteen forty two in England and seventeen eighty nine in France; and sometimes it devours him, and you have in England sixteen forty nine, and in France seventeen ninety three.
three.
QUEEN ANNE.
Above this couple there was Anne, Queen of England.
How was it possible to refuse Anne admiration for taking the trouble of living at the period?
From time to time she would take from a man's pocket, which she wore in her skirt, a little round box, of chased silver, on which was her portrait, in profile, between the two letters q a; she would open this box, and take from it, on her finger, a little pomade, with which she reddened her lips, and, having coloured her mouth, would laugh.
England liked feminine rulers.
"He is the kind of king they want in France," said the English.
What was she doing to be so?
Her stoutness was bloated, her fun heavy, her good nature stupid.
A contradiction which only appears such.
Like Louis the fourteenth., she liked to be driven at a gallop.
She allowed events to fall about as they might chance.
This Forteroche passed into England, and proposed to Queen Anne, who was immediately charmed by the idea, to build in London a theatre with machinery, with a fourth under stage finer than that of the King of France.
Elizabeth was a virgin tempered by Essex; Anne, a wife complicated by Bolingbroke.
Comes now the Japanese.
The Chinese has been called the type of permanence, and well he has merited it, dozing as he has through the ages.
It required no revolution of his nature to learn to calculate the range and fire a field gun or to march the goose step.
One could buy anything; get anything made.
The governing class, entrenched by the precedent and power of centuries and by the stamp it has put upon his mind, will never free him.
The Korean is the perfect type of inefficiency-of utter worthlessness. The Chinese is the perfect type of industry.
The shops were wide open; the streets were lined with pedlars.
This management, his government, is set, crystallized.
What if there be twenty other soldiers jostling about him?
As one Japanese has written:
Things spiritual cannot be imitated; they must be felt and lived, woven into the very fabric of life, and here the Japanese fails.
The fields lay untouched.
Little or nothing was to be purchased.
We are in the midst of our own.
They had tramped probably forty miles that day, down from their hiding places, just for a "look see," and forty miles back they would cheerfully tramp, chattering all the way over what they had seen.
Measured by what religion means to us, the Japanese is a race without religion.
So far as the business man is concerned he has grasped far more clearly the Western code of business, the Western ethics of business, than has the Japanese.
No matter how dark in error and deed, ours has been a history of spiritual struggle and endeavour.
A servant returned with corn beef in tins, a bottle of port, another of cognac, and beer, blessed beer, to wash out from my throat the dust of an army.
It has gained impetus. Affairs rush to conclusion.
Green things were growing-young onions-and the man who was weeding them paused from his labour long enough to sell me a handful.
As yet, the Japanese business man has failed to understand this. When he has signed a time contract and when changing conditions cause him to lose by it, the Japanese merchant cannot understand why he should live up to his contract.
Tested thus, the Korean fails.
Everybody worked.
I was in China.
He does not look upon himself as a free agent, working out his own personal salvation.
Nay, war itself bears fruits whereof he may pick.
I repeat it, cake-good cake.
The colossal fact of our history is that we have made the religion of Jesus Christ our religion.
So be it.
It was a mere matter of training.
"For God, my country, and the Czar!" cries the Russian patriot; but in the Japanese mind there is no differentiation between the three.
So far as the Japanese are concerned, the Emperor lives, is himself deity.
The Emperor is the object to live for and to die for. The Japanese is not an individualist.
This Western soul did not dream that the Eastern soul existed, it was so different, so totally different.
In many a lonely village not an ounce nor a grain of anything could be bought, and yet there might be standing around scores of white garmented, stalwart Koreans, smoking yard long pipes and chattering, chattering-ceaselessly chattering.
Only exists the honour of the State, which is his honour.
For sheer work no worker in the world can compare with him.
I bought condensed milk, bitter, canned vegetables, bread, and cake.
He is only forty five millions, and so fast does the economic exploitation of the planet hurry on the planet's partition amongst the Western peoples that, before he could attain the stature requisite to menace, he would see the Western giants in possession of the very stuff of his dream.
The Chinese is no coward.
He is an indefatigable worker.
To us the country is more than land and soil from which to mine gold or reap grain-it is the sacred abode of the gods, the spirit of our forefathers; to us the Emperor is more than the Arch Constable of a Reichsstaat, or even the Patron of a Kulturstaat; he is the bodily representative of heaven on earth, blending in his person its power and its mercy."
Though we have strayed often and far from righteousness, the voices of the seers have always been raised, and we have harked back to the bidding of conscience.
The Japanese mind does not split hairs as to whether the Emperor is Heaven incarnate or the State incarnate.
We shall not have to wait for our children's time nor our children's children.
He has developed national consciousness instead of moral consciousness.
He goes on where we are balked by the obstacles of incomprehension.
This must not be taken to mean that the Japanese is without soul.
The religion of Japan is practically a worship of the State itself. Patriotism is the expression of this worship.
Everywhere a toiling population was in evidence.
There was no feel, no speech, no recognition.
War is to day the final arbiter in the affairs of men, and it is as yet the final test of the worth whileness of peoples.
In the first place, the Western world will not permit the rise of the yellow peril.
He proceeds at once to offer them for sale.
Liberty to him epitomizes itself in access to the means of toil.
The world is whirling faster to day than ever before.
Love, money, or force could not procure from them a horseshoe or a horseshoe nail.
To go far and to endure, it must have behind it an ethical impulse, a sincerely conceived righteousness.
"It seems to me that they have no soul," was her answer.
It is what binds him down to building as his fathers built.
Granting that the Japanese can hurl back the Slav and that the two great branches of the Anglo Saxon race do not despoil him of his spoils, the Japanese dream takes on substantiality.
The Emperor can do no wrong, nor can the five ambitious great men who have his ear and control the destiny of Japan.
Everybody was busy.
The Far East is the point of contact of the adventuring Western people as well as of the Asiatic.
The late disturbance in the Far East marked the clashing of the dreams, for the Slav, too, is dreaming greatly.
A marvellous imitator truly, but imitating us only in things material.
The work of Antung went on just the same.
We are thumbed by the ages into what we are, and by no conscious inward effort can we in a day rethumb ourselves.
He has a "sense of calm trust in fate, a quiet submission to the inevitable, a stoic composure in sight of danger or calamity, a disdain of life and friendliness with death." He relates himself to the State as, amongst bees, the worker is related to the hive; himself nothing, the State everything; his reasons for existence the exaltation and glorification of the State.
I was in China.
It is knowledge, and knowledge, like coin, is interchangeable.
It is not wrapped up in the heredity of the new born child, but is something to be acquired afterward.
Everything worked.
Twilight fell and deepened, and still the ploughs went up and down the fields, the sowers following after.
They were clad in blue. Pigtails hung down their backs.
The patriotism of the Japanese is blind and unswerving loyalty to what is practically an absolutism.
He takes the turning which we cannot perceive, twists around the obstacle, and, presto! is out of sight in the ramifications of the Chinese mind where we cannot follow.
I bought knives, forks, and spoons, granite ware dishes and mugs.
The leopard cannot change its spots, nor can the Japanese, nor can we.
Our soul stuff is not a coin to be pocketed by the first chance comer.
"Our reflection brought into prominence not so much the moral as the national consciousness of the individual. . . .
But it must be taken into consideration that the above postulate is itself a product of Western race egotism, urged by our belief in our own righteousness and fostered by a faith in ourselves which may be as erroneous as are most fond race fancies.
From the West he has borrowed all our material achievement and passed our ethical achievement by.
The Western world is warned, if not armed, against the possibility of it.
Truly would he of himself constitute the much heralded Yellow Peril were it not for his present management.
It was the land of Canaan.
The air above had been rent by screaming projectiles.
Our material achievement is the product of our intellect.
The Slav is just girding himself up to begin.
Nor is the Chinese the type of permanence which he has been so often designated.
There is such a thing as race egotism as well as creature egotism, and a very good thing it is.
It was the thick of war. But it did not matter.
The most admired quality to day of the Japanese is his patriotism.
He is not dead to new ideas, new methods, new systems.
And here, in the thick of it all, a man was ploughing.
Work is the breath of his nostrils.
Under a capable management he will go far.
He thinks with the same thought symbols as does the Chinese, and he thinks in the same peculiar grooves.
It is not the nature of life to believe itself weak.
No great race adventure can go far nor endure long which has no deeper foundation than material success, no higher prompting than conquest for conquest's sake and mere race glorification.
Work is what he desires above all things, and he will work at anything for anybody.
The previous day the Russians had been there, a bloody battle had been fought, and to day the Japanese were there-but what was that to talk about?
"Upso," cursed word, which means "Have not got."
Under a capable management he can be made to do anything.
'I am not really a black crow, but an enchanted Prince, who has been doomed to spend his youth in misery.
But before I can resume my natural form, and take possession of the belongings of my forefathers, you must go out into the world and take service as a maidservant.'
Come now to my castle with me, and let us live there happily together.'
Then she saw a handsome youth standing beside her; who knelt down at her feet and kissed the little weary white hands.
But when they reached it, it was difficult to believe that it was the same, for it had all been rebuilt and done up again.
The poor beast was all torn and bleeding, and the kind little Princess was quite unhappy about it.
But at midnight, when the odd folk appeared, the elder sister screamed with terror, and from this time on the youngest Princess insisted always on keeping watch alone.
At midnight she heard to her great horror some one coming along the passage, and in a minute her door was flung wide open and a troop of strange beings entered the room.
Once upon a time there were three Princesses who were all three young and beautiful; but the youngest, although she was not fairer than the other two, was the most loveable of them all.
And there they lived for a hundred years, a hundred years of joy and happiness.
One evening, when she was spinning flax, and had worked her little white hands weary, she heard a rustling beside her and a cry of joy.
About half a mile from the palace in which they lived there stood a castle, which was uninhabited and almost a ruin, but the garden which surrounded it was a mass of blooming flowers, and in this garden the youngest Princess used often to walk.
The good-natured Princess at once left her home and her family and hurried to the ruined castle, and took possession of the room with the golden bed.
If you only liked, Princess, you could save me.
Kletke.
They at once proceeded to light a fire in the huge fireplace; then they placed a great cauldron of boiling water on it.
Then of a sudden the cock crew, and all the evil spirits vanished.
So she lived in solitude all the daytime, and at night she would have been frightened, had she not been so brave; but every day the crow came and thanked her for her endurance, and assured her that his sufferings were far less than they had been.
But you would have to say good bye to all your own people and come and be my constant companion in this ruined castle.
When the crow saw this it turned to her and said:
The young Princess consented at once, and for a whole year she served as a maid; but in spite of her youth and beauty she was very badly treated, and suffered many things.
When night approached she lay down, but though she shut her eyes tight sleep would not come.
And so two years passed away, when one day the crow came to the Princess and said: 'In another year I shall be freed from the spell I am under at present, because then the seven years will be over.
There is one habitable room in it, in which there is a golden bed; there you will have to live all by yourself, and don't forget that whatever you may see or hear in the night you must not scream out, for if you give as much as a single cry my sufferings will be doubled.'
She implored her so urgently to let her spend the night with her in the golden bed, that at last the good-natured little Princess consented.
'I am the Prince,' he said, 'who you in your goodness, when I was wandering about in the shape of a black crow, freed from the most awful torments.
When they had done this, they approached the bed on which the trembling girl lay, and, screaming and yelling all the time, they dragged her towards the cauldron.
It thanked the Princess most heartily for her goodness, and said that its sufferings had already been greatly lessened.
So they went to the castle where they had both endured so much.
Now one of the Princess's elder sisters, who was very inquisitive, had found out about everything, and went to pay her youngest sister a visit in the ruined castle.
She nearly died with fright, but she never uttered a sound.
One day when she was pacing to and fro under the lime trees, a black crow hopped out of a rose bush in front of her.
Then Ferko went straight to the palace and told the King that he was ready to perform the third task if he would come to the hill and see it done.
To morrow I must build a palace more beautiful than the King's, and it must be finished before evening.'
He drove them all before him on to the hill, where the King and his whole Court and Ferko's two brothers were standing.
If we could only get him out of the way we might succeed better.'
But when the sun was once more high in the heavens, Ferko felt the blazing heat scorch him, and sought for some cool shady place to rest his aching limbs.
Quick as lightning the wolf flew round the wood, and in a minute many hundred wolves rose up before him, increasing in number every moment, till they could be counted by thousands.
He filled a bottle with the healing water, and then continued his journey in the best of spirits.
Poor Ferko ate up the scrap of bread they had left him and wept bitterly, but no one heard him or came to his help.
So he went to the royal palace, and as he entered the door the first people he saw were his two brothers who had so shamefully ill treated him.
For in a heap higher than the King's palace lay all the grain of the country, and not a single stalk of corn had been left behind in any of the fields.
What are you thinking about all alone by yourself?
His eldest brother was delighted with this proposal, and the two wicked wretches seized Ferko's loaf and ate it all up, while the poor boy was still asleep.
His two brothers were as jealous of him as they could be, for they thought that with his good looks he would be sure to be more fortunate than they would ever be.
But the wolf kept on encouraging Ferko, and said, 'Go on! go on!' So he led the wolves on, till at last they fell on the King and on the wicked brothers, and ate them and the whole Court up in a moment.
Ferko himself returned to the fields, and mounting on the wolf's back he rode to the wood close by.
The grateful creature thanked his benefactor warmly, and promised Ferko to do him a good turn if he should ever need it.
If I can help you in any way only say the word, for I would like to give you a proof of my gratitude.'
Only the lovely Princess was not present, for she was shut up in her tower weeping bitterly.
But the more Ferko wept and told his brothers that he was dying of hunger, the more they laughed and scolded him for his greed.
The whole court went out to see the wonder, and their astonishment was great at the sight which met their eyes.
Ferko continued his way till he came to a ploughed field.
All the next day he spent wandering about the fields, and toward evening the wolf came running to him in a great hurry and said, 'I have collected together all the wolves in the kingdom, and they are waiting for you in the wood.
Ferko again proceeded on his journey, but he hadn't gone far before a queen bee flew against him, trailing one wing behind her, which had been cruelly torn in two by a big bird.
No matter how impossible it is, he must do it or die.'
The more the cruel King gazed on the wonder before him, the more angry he became, for he could not, in the face of his promise, put the stranger to death.
Ferko went at once to the King and told him the palace was finished.
Can I be of any help to you, and thus repay your great kindness to me?'
Suddenly a big wolf ran up to him, and standing still said, 'I'm very glad to see you again, my kind benefactor.
'Is that all?' answered the bee, 'then you may comfort yourself; for before the sun goes down to morrow night a palace shall be built unlike any that King has dwelt in before.
Be of good cheer, and lead the King to the hill just outside the city walls.' And humming gaily she flew away again.
But he could think of no way of escape.
I'll undertake the task, and you'll hear from me again before sunset to morrow.
Here, he thought to himself, he might as well go straight to the palace and offer his services to the King of the country, for he had heard that the King's daughter was as beautiful as the day.
Ferko was no less willing to help her than he had been to help the wolf and the mouse, so he poured some healing drops over the wounded wing.
The moon was shining brightly, and lighted him to the lake where he could bathe his poor broken legs.
When this was done he stretched out his hand eagerly for the piece of bread, but his brothers gave him such a tiny scrap that the starving youth finished it in a moment and besought them for a second bit.
'Is that all?' answered the mouse; 'that needn't distress you much.
And the wolves all went peacefully back to their own homes, and Ferko and his bride lived for many years in peace and happiness together, and were much beloved by great and small in the land.
This splendid palace had been built by the grateful queen bee, who had summoned all the other bees in the kingdom to help her.
'If that's all you want done,' answered the wolf, 'you needn't worry yourself.
Then Ferko went straight to the palace and set the Princess free, and on the same day he married her and was crowned King of the country.
Ferko fell fast asleep, but the other two remained awake, and the eldest said to the second brother, 'What do you say to doing our brother Ferko some harm?
The eldest answered quickly, 'Let him drive all the wolves of the kingdom on to this hill before to morrow night.
The day passed slowly, and with the evening came the little mouse and said, 'Now there is not a single stalk of corn left in any field; they are all collected in one big heap on the hill out there.'
At these words the Princess burst into tears, and when the King saw this he ordered her to be shut up in a high tower and carefully guarded till the dangerous magician should either have left the kingdom or been hung on the nearest tree.
Ferko recognised the queen bee, and said, 'Alas! how could you help me? for I have been set to do a task which no one in the whole world could do, let him be ever such a genius!
The one was saying to the other as the weary youth lay down, 'Is there anything the least wonderful or remarkable about this neighbourhood?'
The poor youth himself was heart broken, and cursed the hour he had crossed the boundary of the King's domain.
Go quickly to the King, and tell him to go to the hill that he may see the wonder you have done with his own eyes.
Then the cruel creatures laughed, and repeated what they had said the day before; but when Ferko continued to beg and beseech them, the eldest said at last, 'If you will let us put out one of your eyes and break one of your legs, then we will give you a bit of our bread.'
Only the beautiful Princess rejoiced over Ferko's success, and looked on him with friendly glances, which the youth returned.
Ferko spent the whole day in the meadows waiting the return of the bee. And when evening was come the queen bee flew by, and perching on his shoulder she said, 'The wonderful palace is ready.
Here he noticed a little mouse creeping wearily along on its hind paws, for its front paws had both been broken in a trap.
'I quite agree with you,' answered the second brother, 'and my advice is to eat up his loaf of bread, and then to refuse to give him a bit of ours until he has promised to let us put out his eyes or break his legs.'
At these words poor Ferko wept more bitterly than before, and bore the torments of hunger till the sun was high in the heavens; then he could stand it no longer, and he consented to allow his left eye to be put out and his left leg to be broken.
Early on the following day the whole town was on its feet, and everyone wondered how and where the stranger would build the wonderful palace. The Princess alone was silent and sorrowful, and had cried all night till her pillow was wet, so much did she take the fate of the beautiful youth to heart.
On the spot the queen bee was cured, and turning to Ferko she said, 'I am most grateful for your kindness, and shall reward you some day.' And with these words she flew away humming, gaily.
So he endured the pangs of starvation all that day, but when night came his endurance gave way, and he let his right eye be put out and his right leg broken for a second piece of bread.
The King was pleased with this proposal, and commanded Ferko to set to work on the following day.
But the wolf on whose back Ferko sat, said to its rider, 'Go on!
The King in his terror called out, 'Stop a moment; I will give you half my kingdom if you will drive all the wolves away.' But Ferko pretended not to hear, and drove some more thousands before him, so that everyone quaked with horror and fear.
But it was no tree he leant against, but a gallows on which two ravens were seated.
Can I be of any help to you? I am the bee whose wing you healed, and would like to show my gratitude in some way.'
He had not gone far before he met a wolf, who was limping disconsolately along on three legs, and who on perceiving Ferko began to howl dismally.
The youngest of the three brothers, whose name was Ferko, was a beautiful youth, with a splendid figure, blue eyes, fair hair, and a complexion like milk and roses.
Then the eldest brother replied, 'The corn has all been cut, but it has not yet been put into barns; let the knave collect all the grain in the kingdom into one big heap before to morrow night, and if as much as a stalk of corn is left let him be put to death.
Before to morrow night all the grain in the kingdom has to be gathered into one big heap, and if as much as a stalk of corn is wanting I must pay for it with my life.'
Keep your spirits up.' And with these words he trotted quickly away.
No sooner had Ferko entered the palace than all eyes were turned on the handsome youth, and the King's daughter herself was lost in admiration, for she had never seen anyone so handsome in her life before.
But the two brothers had grown quite green with envy, and only declared the more that Ferko was nothing but a wicked magician.
But the King was overcome by a sudden terror when he saw the enormous pack of wolves approaching nearer and nearer, and calling out to Ferko he said, 'Enough, enough, we don't want any more.'
The two brothers were delighted, for they thought they had now got rid of Ferko for ever.
The sun sank to rest and night came on, when a little mouse started out of the grass at Ferko's feet, and said to him, 'I'm delighted to see you, my kind benefactor; but why are you looking so sad?
Night came on, and the poor blind youth had no eyes to close, and could only crawl along the ground, not knowing in the least where he was going.
If he does this he may go free; if not he shall be hung as you have said.'
Ferko felt so sorry for the little beast that he spoke to it in the most friendly manner, and washed its small paws with the healing water.
At last it began to grow dusk, and the sun sank behind the mountains; gradually it became cooler on the hill, and the grass grew wet with dew. Then Ferko buried his face in the ground till his eyes were damp with dewdrops, and in a moment he saw clearer than he had ever done in his life before.
The wicked brothers stamped and foamed with rage when they saw the failure of their wicked designs.
And turning to the two wicked brothers he said, 'Suggest something for him to do; no matter how difficult, he must succeed in it or die.'
Ferko wandered out into the fields again, and sat down on the stump of a tree wondering what he should do next.
Then return at once to me and get on my back, and I will help you to drive all the wolves together.'
The little mouse had summoned every other mouse in the land to its help, and together they had collected all the grain in the kingdom.
In a moment the mouse was sound and whole, and after thanking the kind physician it scampered away over the ploughed furrows.
'Well,' answered the first raven, 'my eyes are in no want of this healing bath, for, Heaven be praised, they are as good as ever they were; but my wing has been very feeble and weak ever since it was shot by an arrow many years ago, so let us fly at once to the lake that I may be restored to health and strength again.' And so they flew away.
His brothers noticed this, and envy and jealousy were added to their fear, so much so that they determined once more to destroy him.
Ferko was at a loss to understand how he could have eaten in his sleep, but he said nothing, and fasted all that day and the next night.
Then Ferko crawled to the edge of the lake and dipped his limbs in the water.
As he was wandering disconsolately about the meadows round the palace, wondering how he could escape being put to death, a little bee flew past, and settling on his shoulder whispered in his ear, 'What is troubling you, my kind benefactor?
There is a lake down there below us, and anyone who bathes in it, though he were at death's door, becomes sound and well on the spot, and those who wash their eyes with the dew on this hill become as sharp sighted as the eagle, even if they have been blind from their youth.'
When he did awake he felt very hungry and turned to eat his bread, but his brothers cried out, 'You ate your loaf in your sleep, you glutton, and you may starve as long as you like, but you won't get a scrap of ours.'
A splendid palace reared itself on the hill just outside the walls of the city, made of the most exquisite flowers that ever grew in mortal garden.
Just trust in me, and before the sun sets again you shall hear that your task is done.' And with these words the little creature scampered away into the fields.
Ferko, who never doubted that the mouse would be as good as its word, lay down comforted on the soft grass and slept soundly till next morning.
'My good friend,' said the youth, 'be of good cheer, for I can soon heal your leg,' and with these words he poured some of the precious water over the wolf's paw, and in a minute the animal was springing about sound and well on all fours.
They went to the King and told him that Ferko was a wicked magician, who had come to the palace with the intention of carrying off the Princess.
He climbed to the top of a hill and lay down in the grass, and as he thought under the shadow of a big tree.
go on!' and at the same moment many more wolves ran up the hill, howling horribly and showing their white teeth.
He lay down once more on the grass and soon fell fast asleep.
They did not think long, but replied, 'Let him build your Majesty in one day a more beautiful palace than this, and if he fails in the attempt let him be hung.'
'I should just think there was,' replied the other; 'many things that don't exist anywhere else in the world.
"No, it's only the unexpectedness of it," thought Pierre.
What a strange coincidence!"
He tried to hide his agitation.
"I thought he had been killed.
Pierre spoke rapidly and with animation.
"But no, it can't be!" he thought.
It suffused him, seized him, and enveloped him completely.
"Today-it was the same affair.
The immense house on the old stone foundations was of wood, plastered only inside.
The moment Nicholas took her hand she could no longer restrain herself and began to cry.
She is a sterile flower, you know-like some strawberry blossoms.
In winter, except for business excursions, he spent most of his time at home making himself one with his family and entering into all the details of his children's relations with their mother.
The rest of the year life pursued its unbroken routine with its ordinary occupations, and its breakfasts, lunches, dinners, and suppers, provided out of the produce of the estate.
He had asked Princess Mary to be gentle and kind to his cousin.
She thoroughly realized the wrong he had done Sonya, felt herself to blame toward her, and imagined that her wealth had influenced Nicholas' choice.
"If he had told me he was drunk and did not see...
She could not find fault with Sonya in any way and tried to be fond of her, but often felt ill will toward her which she could not overcome.
She seemed to be fond not so much of individuals as of the family as a whole.
The house was spacious and had rooms for the house serfs and apartments for visitors.
But what is the matter with you, Mary?" he suddenly asked.
"Mary, you must despise me!" he would say.
Before that, Nicholas had told his wife all that had passed between himself and Sonya, blaming himself and commending her.
"You should go, go away at once, if you don't feel strong enough to control yourself," she would reply sadly, trying to comfort her husband.
From the time of his marriage Sonya had lived in his house.
"I give you my word of honor it shan't occur again, and let this always be a reminder to me," and he pointed to the broken ring.
He flushed crimson, left her side, and paced up and down the room.
Oh, Mary, don't remind me of it!" and again he flushed.
Never," he repeated in a trembling voice like a boy asking for forgiveness.
He would sit in his study with a grave air, reading-a task he first imposed upon himself as a duty, but which afterwards became a habit affording him a special kind of pleasure and a consciousness of being occupied with serious matters.
Among the gentry of the province Nicholas was respected but not liked.
She never cried from pain or vexation, but always from sorrow or pity, and when she wept her radiant eyes acquired an irresistible charm.
"'To him that hath shall be given, and from him that hath not shall be taken away.' You remember?
"Is it just sentimentality, old wives' tales, or is she right?" he asked himself.
"Nicholas, I saw it... he was to blame, but why do you...
"Mary," he said softly, going up to her, "it will never happen again; I give you my word.
Nicholas went out into the porch to question him, and immediately after the elder had given a few replies the sound of cries and blows were heard.
It really seemed that Sonya did not feel her position trying, and had grown quite reconciled to her lot as a sterile flower.
The buildings, begun under straitened circumstances, were more than simple.
He understood what she was weeping about, but could not in his heart at once agree with her that what he had regarded from childhood as quite an everyday event was wrong.
On returning to lunch Nicholas went up to his wife, who sat with her head bent low over her embroidery frame, and as usual began to tell her what he had been doing that morning.
But he did forget himself once or twice within a twelvemonth, and then he would go and confess to his wife, and would again promise that this should really be the very last time.
One matter connected with his management sometimes worried Nicholas, and that was his quick temper together with his old hussar habit of making free use of his fists.
The whole summer, from spring sowing to harvest, he was busy with the work on his farm.
"I deserve it."
Perhaps she lacks egotism, I don't know, but from her is taken away, and everything has been taken away.
She is one that hath not; why, I don't know.
It had bare deal floors and was furnished with very simple hard sofas, armchairs, tables, and chairs made by their own serf carpenters out of their own birchwood.
In winter he visited his other villages or spent his time reading.
Like a cat, she had attached herself not to the people but to the home.
Though Countess Mary told Natasha that those words in the Gospel must be understood differently, yet looking at Sonya she agreed with Natasha's explanation.
He did not concern himself with the interests of his own class, and consequently some thought him proud and others thought him stupid.
"What?" asked Countess Mary, surprised.
In autumn he gave himself up to hunting with the same business like seriousness-leaving home for a month, or even two, with his hunt.
Nicholas said nothing.
She took his hand and kissed it.
She waited on the old countess, petted and spoiled the children, was always ready to render the small services for which she had a gift, and all this was unconsciously accepted from her with insufficient gratitude.
"You know," said Natasha, "you have read the Gospels a great deal-there is a passage in them that just fits Sonya."
Among other things he spoke of the Bogucharovo elder.
"Such an insolent scoundrel!" he cried, growing hot again at the mere recollection of him.
Formerly I very much wanted Nicholas to marry her, but I always had a sort of presentiment that it would not come off.
The country seat at Bald Hills had been rebuilt, though not on the same scale as under the old prince.
The harmony between him and his wife grew closer and closer and he daily discovered fresh spiritual treasures in her.
This condition is never observed by the universal historians, and so to explain the resultant forces they are obliged to admit, in addition to the insufficient components, another unexplained force affecting the resultant action.
The historian evidently decomposes Alexander's power into the components: Talleyrand, Chateaubriand, and the rest-but the sum of the components, that is, the interactions of Chateaubriand, Talleyrand, Madame de Stael, and the others, evidently does not equal the resultant, namely the phenomenon of millions of Frenchmen submitting to the Bourbons.
This curious contradiction is not accidental.
But Napoleon's power suppressed the ideas of the Revolution and the general temper of the age.
They see it in what is called culture-in mental activity.
To find component forces equal to the composite or resultant force, the sum of the components must equal the resultant.
Porthos began to curl the other side of his mustache.
While this was going on, the three men, Porthos especially, ate and drank gloriously,--it was wonderful to see them.
The ten full bottles were ten empty ones by the time Truchen returned with the cheese.
"You have before you," he said to her, "the two gentlemen who influenced the greatest, gayest, grandest portion of my life.
"Some bran and water for my horse," said Porthos, "for it is very warm, I think."
"The deuce," thought D'Artagnan, "can Porthos have any intentions in that quarter?"
A few oats and a good bed-nothing more."
"I am from Antwerp," said the lady.
The table was laid for two persons.
D'Artagnan, whom nothing ever escaped, remarked how much redder Truchen's left cheek was than her right.
Porthos's heart began to expand as he said, "I am hungry," and he sat himself beside Madame Truchen, whom he looked at in the most killing manner.
"Life, monsieur," said Planchet, laughing, "is capital which a man ought to invest as sensibly as he possibly can."
Planchet turned to his housekeeper.
"Oh! they shall have as much as they like."
"You should not call her madame," said D'Artagnan.
"Very well, monsieur, I accept it; for I know that when you give your word of honor, it is sacred."
"To morrow."
"Is it possible?"
"No; I prefer the gentlest of all; I never was a very good rider, as you know, and in my grocery business I have got more awkward than ever; besides-"
"Well?"
"When?"
"Tell me how you console yourself."
"It is miraculous."
"I don't pass my life in thinking."
He was a clever fellow, although of a very odd complexion, which was the same color as your olives.
You have noticed it, then?"
"Except to day, and the day before yesterday."
"Exactly; to Fontainebleau."
And the blue devils make people get thin.
"I should do something rash."
"The best I have."
"Where?"
"Well!"
"Besides what?"
"Did we not fix to morrow?"
"Quite so."
"That is as may be."
"I?"
"Agreed, by all means."
"I was not bored; yet since you have been talking to me, I feel more animated."
Come, explain, explain."
"What is it?"
"Have you ever given it a thought, why I was absent?"
"Oh!
"Good."
"It is a very tempting one."
La Fontaine's hare thinks."
"Do you like the country?"
"I have no doubt of it; but what do you think of his mode of reasoning?"
Get angry if you like, or call me names, if you prefer it; but, the deuce is in it.
"You think so?--follow my example, then."
Tell me."
"That being understood then, proceed."
"Well, what does his hare do, then?"
"On the fifteenth and thirtieth of every month."
"I should not like that," said Porthos.
The cavalier kneels at the beginning, the young lady by and by gets tamed down, and then it is she who has to supplicate.
I ought to know that figure and peculiar style of walk." As he ran, the sound of his spurs and of his boots upon the hard ground of the street made a strange jingling noise; a fortunate circumstance in itself, which he was far from reckoning upon.
Who is this lady?
Porthos embraced Madame Truchen, heaving an enormous sigh.
"But what is that I see out there,--crosses and stones?"
"I am a great stickler for a good view myself," said Porthos.
"Let us go on," said D'Artagnan.
Chapter six.
"Yes, I will join you presently."
"Yes," said Porthos; "I see a man."
"Not yet."
"Oh, I don't deny that."
The two bearers of the corpse had unfastened the straps by which they carried the litter, and were letting their burden glide gently into the open grave.
I had four windows here, but I bricked up two."
The latter, to show that she bore no ill will, approached Porthos, upon whom she conferred the same favor.
"That is exactly the reason," said Planchet, timidly, "why I feel it does me good to contemplate a few dead."
Porthos had all the taste and pride of a landed proprietor.
In the midst of his despair, he approached Porthos, who blocked up the whole of the passage leading from the back shop to the shop itself.
Chapter four.
"Because I don't know where it ends; and, also, because it is full of poachers."
"What about?" inquired Porthos.
"Which?"
"The Dutch cheese, inside which a rat had made his way, and we found only the rind left."
But the grocer had a heart of gold, ever mindful of the good old times-a trait that carries youth into old age.
I have rooms for a couple of friends, that's all."
"Good lad, good lad!
"What have you got, then?" inquired Porthos, "and why do you call it a country seat?"
How many acres of park have you got?"
"Whereabouts, monsieur?"
"Because they hunt my game, and I hunt them-which, in these peaceful times, is for me a sufficiently pleasing picture of war on a small scale."
"What cheese?"
"There is no doubt at all of it, monsieur."
"How so?"
"In the first place, they can walk about the king's forest, which is very beautiful."
As soon as they had finished eating they set off.
"At your chateau."
"Very well," said Porthos, "it does not trouble me in the least."
"Of park?"
The two others got under the counters, fearing Porthos might have a taste for human flesh.
what an honor!"
"I can't congratulate you on the first visit you have paid in our neighborhood," she said.
Get out of the way."
My dear Gerard! you look surprised.
Yes, yes, Cristy, I'm noticing him; he's done with his writings.
There was no other alternative.
She tried to thank me; the tears rose in her eyes-she signed to me to leave her, poor soul, as if she felt ashamed of herself.
Either I had forgotten Lord Uppercliff, during my long absence abroad, or I had never heard of him.
I might have felt the same objection to the pale delicacy of his complexion, to the soft profusion of his reddish brown hair, to his finely shaped sensitive lips, but for two marked peculiarities in him which would have shown me to be wrong-that is to say: the expression of power about his head, and the signs of masculine resolution presented by his mouth and chin.
He inquired next if I had brought his portfolio with me.
She smiled, and kissed her hand, and fluttered out of the room.
"I have something to say to mr Roylake," he announced, with a haughty look at his landlord.
Cristel followed (from the kitchen garden), with a basket of vegetables on her arm.
"Come, my angel; let me kiss you."
"I want my answer," he said, handing me the book and the pencil.
mr Toller went on with his questions immediately.
Cristel was leaving the kitchen; I saw her at the door which communicated with the Lodger's side of the cottage.
"On this lovely day, Cristel, Nature pleads for me.
I betray no confidence in presenting this copy of his confession.
"Like a scene in a play, isn't it?"
Cristel joined us, amazed at his pertinacity.
Old Toller astonished me.
"He speaks as if he knew you!" she cried.
Cristel dropped his book on the table, and hurried to me in breathless surprise.
Did she think I was to be so easily frightened as that?
That will do.
On hearing this good news, mr Toller's gratitude became ungovernable: he was more eager than ever, and more eloquent than ever, in returning to the repairs.
Perhaps you can say what the value of them may be?"
"Did he want you to read it?"
There are some deaf people who can tell what is said by looking at the speaker's lips.
Charming; perfectly charming.
"For some part of the time," I answered, "I was catching moths in Fordwitch Wood."
"Don't laugh, sir!
CHAPTER six
"You ought to know me better than that, Cristel!"
The dog sprang up from his refuge under the table, and shook himself joyfully.
"Spare your breath, mr Toller.
Shall I make another acknowledgment of weakness?
But I was still in such a vile temper that I determined to let Cristel know she had been discovered.
You can see in his face he finds the tale of them correct. He's coming this way.
I was shocked; I was grieved; I was more than ever secretly resolved to go back to her.
She was evidently in earnest.
He bowed, smiled, possessed himself abruptly of her hand, and kissed it. She tried to withdraw it from his grasp, and met with an obstinate resistance.
I beg your pardon again.
They say smoking leads to meditation; I leave you to meditate on Lady Lena.
You deaf adder, let her be!"
A brown dog, of the companionable retriever breed, ran in and fawned upon old Toller.
"If you murder me with your screeching again, look out for your skinny throat-I'll throttle you."
"Very well," he resumed; "we will have it out, here.
"It won't do, mr Toller!"
He held out his hand; it was not taken.
Pray don't think me bold; I don't know how to express myself.
"Of course!"
In the instant before the person behind it appeared, the dog looked that way-started up, frightened-and took refuge under the table.
My affliction is my happiness, when you say cruel things to me.
"Mind!
"He did."
It would have been an act of downright cruelty to persist in opposing her.
He says, 'All right,' and he does nothing.
She took no notice of him.
You being our landlord, we look to you to help us.
It was he beyond all doubt who had frightened the dog, forewarned by instinct of his appearance.
I beg your pardon, sir, did you speak?
"I tell you again, sir, this is no laughing matter.
Angry thoughts these-and surely thoughts unworthy of me?
I've never seen his portfolio before.
Cristel picked up the book.
His personal attractions triumphed in the clear searching light.
"You won't think I am presuming on your kindness?"
I communicated this view of the matter to Cristel.
"My dear child," I said grandly, "do you really suppose I am afraid of that poor wretch?
I had expected to see her blush.
The old fellow received his dismissal with a low bow, and left the kitchen with a look at the Lodger which revealed (unless I was entirely mistaken) a sly sense of triumph.
He picked up his book from the table, and took his pencil out of Cristel's hand, while we were speaking.
I repeated what I had written, word for word.
Finding that he had attracted my notice, he showed no signs of embarrassment-he seized the opportunity of asking for information.
Well?
"The only happy moments I have are my moments passed in your presence," he said.
"Will you follow me to my side of the cottage?" I shook my head.
I put it at once into his hand.
"You see, sir, it's no use speaking to the bailiff.
He hobbled up to his lodger, and shook his infirm fists, and screamed at the highest pitch of his old cracked voice: "Let her be, or I won't have you here no longer!
More polite, however, than I had been, he left his resolution to be inferred.
He seemed to have caught the infection of his daughter's anger.
"At any rate," she resumed, "you have heard of their father, Lord Uppercliff?"
Placed between Cristel and his money, he really acted as if he preferred Cristel.
"You find me here, because I don't wish to return to your side of the house."
His gallantry addressed her in sweet words; and his voice destroyed their charm by the dreary monotony of the tone in which he spoke.
At the next moment, the deaf Lodger walked into the room.
mrs Roylake's fascinating smile disappeared when I mentioned the mill. She suddenly became a cold lady-I might even say a stiff lady.
May I hope that you forgive me?"
As strangers I was determined we should remain.
Absurd! contemptible!
I live in my fool's paradise; I don't hear you." He tried to draw her nearer to him.
In this state of embarrassment I took a young man's way out of the difficulty, and spoke lightly of a serious thing.
Cristel was not attending to him, she was speaking to me.
Write it for me, dear, and make me happy for the day."
That fiercest anger which turns the face pale, was the anger that had possession of Cristel as she took refuge with her father.
"Do you notice, sir, that he seems to set a deal of store by his writings?
The portfolio was a trust confided to me; the sooner I returned it to the writer of the confession-the sooner I told him plainly the conclusion at which I had arrived-the more at ease my mind would be.
Well, I won't be in your way.
Unlike the river and the cottage, she gained by being revealed in the brilliant sunlight.
She is married to the Honorable Captain Millbay, of the Navy, now away in his ship.
To my surprise she turned pale, and vehemently remonstrated.
In some way unknown to me, I had apparently roused his suspicions.
I am too stupid, or too impatient, or too wicked to be able to do that.
In a minute after, the door was opened from without.
"There's the whole story," I concluded.
No?
Will you tell me what you wrote when you answered him?"
When I trusted you with my confession last night, I left you to decide (after reading it) whether you would make an enemy of me or not. You remember that?" I nodded my head.
"Write," he repeated.
Time has passed since I first read it, and changes have occurred in the interval, which leave me free to exercise my own discretion, and to let the autobiography speak for itself.
He proceeded to reckon up the repairs, counting with his fleshless thumb on his skinny fingers, when he was interrupted by a curious succession of sounds which began with whining, and ended with scratching at the cottage door.
I was obliged to acknowledge my ignorance.
I described his successful appeal to my compassion-not very willingly, for it made me look (as I thought) like a weak person.
A second door communicating, as I concluded from its position, with the new cottage, was suddenly opened.
"You asked me to bear with that man," she said, "because he paid you a good rent.
Having made up my mind, so far, the next thing to do (with the clock on the mantel piece striking midnight) was to go to bed.
"What does it mean?"
"Your absence was the only drawback," she answered.
"If you want to speak to me, write it!" he said, with rage and suffering in every line of his face.
As he moved again to the door and left us, the hysterical passion in him forced its way outward-he burst into tears.
The deaf man addressed me with a cold and distant manner.
Her back was turned towards me; astonishment held me silent.
THE RETURN OF THE PORTFOLIO
I replied that I had met with the "bold girl" purely by accident, on her side as well as on mine; and then I started a new topic.
There's first drains----"
Give me a little comfort to take back with me to my solitude.
I now saw, in their full beauty, the luster of her brown eyes, the warm rosiness of her dark complexion, the delightful vivacity of expression which was the crowning charm of her face.
At the breakfast table, my stepmother and I met again.
I knocked at the door on the ancient side of the building.
He tore from his pocket his little book, filled with blank leaves, and threw it at Toller's head.
"Oh, sir, don't distress me by talking in that way!
He was a perfect stranger to me."
"I shall trouble you no more for to day.
"Neither enemies nor friends.
"I'll write it myself."
What could her dear Gerard have been doing, out in the dark by himself, for all that time?
But the dog has never changed; he feels and knows there is something dreadful in that man.
His fleshless face would have looked like the face of a mummy, but for the restless brightness of his little watchful black eyes.
She paused confusedly in the doorway, and tried to resist me when I insisted on relieving her of the basket.
We will drive out after luncheon, and pay a round of visits." When this prospect was placed before me, I remembered having read in books of sensitive persons receiving impressions which made their blood run cold; I now found myself one of those persons, for the first time in my life.
I tried to stop him by promising to speak to the bailiff myself.
I think I see it in your face.
We are falling to pieces, as it were, on this old side of the house.
He opened the door that led to his side of the cottage-paused-and looked back at Cristel.
Leave us, mr Gerard-pray, pray leave us, and don't come near this place again till father has got rid of him."
What's he going to do next?"
"I became acquainted with your deaf Lodger, Cristel, under ridiculous circumstances.
He tried again-I declare it positively, he tried again.
At another time, the picture of himself in his later years, and the defiant manner in which he presented it, almost made me regret that he had not died of the illness which had struck him deaf.
"Was it a pleasant dinner party last night?" I asked-as if the subject really interested me.
When we said good bye-I have been told that I did wrong; I meant no harm-I kissed her.
His daughter interfered, and stopped him at the critical moment when he was actually offering his arm to conduct me in state across the kitchen. Cristel had just put her pretty brown hand over his mouth, and said, "Oh, father, do pray be quiet!" when we were all three disturbed by another interruption.
Absurd, Cristel-absurd!"
"I agree with this old friend, mr Gerard.
I slept badly.
Not one impression, but many impressions, troubled and confused my mind. Certain passages in the confession inclined me to believe that the writer was mad.
I shook my head.
She opened the door, passed through it, and closed it behind her.
Once more, it won't do!"
Taking one of my visiting cards, I wrote on it: "I came back for my stick, and saw you go to him." After I had pinned this spiteful little message to the door, so that she might see it when she returned, I suffered a disappointment.
As strangers he and I had first met.
I took the pencil, and wrote my reply:
His little restless black eyes followed the movements of his lodger's fingers, as they turned over leaf after leaf of the manuscript, with such eager curiosity and interest that I looked at him in surprise.
I have got to hate him, since that time-perhaps to despise him.
Oh, what made you do that!"
Ah, yes, yes; I thought so.
The dog laid his head on her lap, asking to be caressed.
"Did you know him before that?"
He waited a little, in the vain hope that she would relent: she turned away from him.
He looked where she was looking-and discovered, for the first time, that I was in the room.
It failed to satisfy her.
Having traversed the short distance between the cottage and the wood, I remembered that I had left my walking stick behind me, and returned to get it.
"Then I now ask you, mr Roylake: Which are we-enemies or friends?"
"no
Her father seemed to have reasons of his own for following my example and declining to answer questions.
"Is that the impression," he asked, "produced by what I allowed you to read?"
On entering the room, the first person, and the only person, who attracted his attention was Cristel.
I replied by a sign in the affirmative.
He saw us talking last night, and did me the honor to be jealous of me."
Society-provided it was not society at the mill-was always attractive as a topic of conversation.
I lit my cigar, but not on the terrace.
"Are you the young master, sir?
You had better have roused the fury of a wild beast.
mrs Roylake was shocked.
"I wouldn't distress you, Cristel, for the whole world," I said-and left her to conclude that I had felt the influence of her entreaties in the right way.
Go out on the terrace; your poor father always took his cigar on the terrace.
"Yes."
On this ground, I declined to answer any more questions.
Before I recovered myself, Cristel entered the kitchen.
Having set him at ease, in that particular, I said: "You seem to be interested in Miss Cristel."
The man whom she hated offered his arm.
I beckoned to Gloody, waiting modestly at the door, to come in, and tell me what he had discovered.
He led me to the door of his daughter's room; and stood close by, when I knocked softly, and begged that she would come out.
I was on the point of putting the question, when she held up her hand, and said, "Hush!"
Well, your friend, your favorite friend, has invited me to meet you.
When we had left each other, I thought of the absent Captain in the Navy who was Lady Rachel's husband.
You will ask me who the person is.
After looking round the kitchen again, I asked where she was.
The ancient miller rose at that hint like a fish at a fly.
Both, I have no doubt, at your age. Good bye."
He has given Cristy no reason to complain of him.
"When we are in want of help," I said, "we sometimes find it, nearer than we had ventured to expect-at our own doors."
I invited myself-the deaf gentleman submitted."
In less than a minute, he was back again in a state of breathless triumph.
In the present direction of the wind, we could hear the striking of the church clock.
He waved his hand gaily, and approached us along the road.
Perhaps he was fatigued, or perhaps he had something else to think of.
Men will wonder what possessed me-women will think it a proceeding that did me credit-I took the familiar road which led to the gloomy wood and the guilty river.
Dark green, I think."
"Is this Lady Rachel's doing?" I said.
What have you done, mr Gerard, to make him like you so well, in that short time?"
I tried to discover it now.
"Any particular color?" I went on.
"Tell me why I ought to break my engagement," I said.
A purple feather."
Returning to the house, I tried to occupy myself with my collection of insects, sadly neglected of late.
Explain it who can-I knew that I was going to drink tea with him, and yet I was unwilling to advance a few steps, and meet him on the road!
I must positively make a sketch of the cottage by the mill-I mean, of course, the picturesque side of it.
"I dare say I am excited, mr Gerard, by the honor that has been done me. You are going to keep your engagement, of course?
I was stupefied.
No! that's not quite true.
My next day's engagement being for seven o'clock in the evening, I put mrs Roylake's self control to a new test.
She walked in, sir, as if the place belonged to her."
A visible hand touched my arm.
No, sir; our deaf devil is not to blame for this.
I had accepted his invitation; and I had no other engagement to claim me: it would have been an act of meanness amounting to a confession of fear, if I had sent an excuse.
"Gloody has seen the person," he announced; "and (what do you think, sir?) it's a woman!"
"Seven," she said.
"Nothing."
Lovely interfusions of sobered color rested, faded, returned again, on the upper leaves of the foliage as they lightly moved.
She says so herself-and she never told a lie yet."
Threatens, if any man attempts to take her away, he'll shoot her, and shoot the man, and shoot himself.
Which way did I turn my steps?
"But, mr Toller," I objected, "something must have happened to distress her.
Her parasol?
If I had dared to commit such an act of rudeness, I should have jumped out of the carriage, and have told mrs Roylake that I meant to walk home.
She took it!
I went in.
Useless!
Old Toller highly approved of my conduct.
"I can guess."
My mother whispered to me-I thanked the little mill girl, and gave her a kiss.
The longing in me to see Cristel again, was more than I could resist.
Not because I was in love with her; only because I had left her in distress.
"I am afraid you are ill, Cristel?" was all I could find to say, under the double disadvantage of speaking through a door, and having a father listening at my side.
"But you mean to try?"
I felt vaguely uneasy; irritated by my own depression of spirits.
I was silent; I was awed.
Pale, composed, resolute, she said, "I am ready," and led the way out.
He rubbed his fleshless hands, and whispered: "You'll get it out of Cristy to morrow, and I'll help you."
Or was it a mockery of her that had taken her place?
are you angry?
"Miss Cristel." His face brightened with an expression of interest when he mentioned the miller's daughter.
"Remember what I told you at the spring," she answered.
We were tracing our way along our favorite woodland path; and we found a companion of tender years, hiding from us.
I was secretly annoyed, feeling that my stepmother's singular indifference to domestic interests of paramount importance, at other times, must have some object in view, entirely beyond the reach of my penetration.
"Why did you invite yourself?"
Shall we go to tea?"
I was left to decide for myself.
Of the excitement which had disturbed-I had almost said, profaned-her beautiful face, not a vestige remained.
"Any ornament in it?"
She held out both hands to me.
"Because a tea party is not complete without a woman."
The meanest of all human infirmities is also the most universal; and the name of it is Self esteem.
Was I conscious of her touch?
WARNED FOR THE LAST TIME!
I am not suspicious by nature, as I hope and believe.
Her manner had become quieter; her face was more composed; her expression almost recovered its natural charm while she spoke of Lady Rachel.
I said I would return on the next day; and left the room with a sore heart.
It is perhaps only right to add that my patience had been tried by the progress of domestic events, which affected Lady Lena and myself-viewed as victims.
"Did you notice the lady's dress?" I asked.
I don't mean to be rude, sir-pray be kinder to me than ever! pray let me be!"
I started, trembled, returned reluctantly to my present self.
I left the house, followed by my stepmother's best wishes for a pleasant evening.
I offered a suggestion.
"Are you determined to keep your engagement?"
"Try, sir, to forget it and forgive it," she resumed gently, "if I have misbehaved myself.
While my eyes followed the successive transformations of the view, as the hour advanced, tender and solemn influences breathed their balm over my mind. Days, happy days that were past, revived.
The tone of the poor girl's voice-answering, "Forgive me, sir; I can't do it"--convicted the she socialist (as I thought) of merciless conduct of some sort.
What is it?"
A dark flush discolored her face.
Has she not told you what it is?"
"How can I help it, sir?"
I've had another row with that deaf devil-my new name for him, and I think it's rather clever.
But, I was naturally desirous of discovering next what Lady Rachel had said; and I asked to speak with Cristel.
It's too late now."
"Is the cause there?" I asked.
Did I feel the child's breath, in my day dream, still fluttering on my cheek?
Her father whispered, "Look at her!"
"No! no indeed!
"Not that I know of.
"Yes!
My own moths failed to interest me.
"Not she!
I looked at her in silence.
"Yes; I mean to try."
I failed to see it myself in that light.
That old Toller-the most exasperating of men, judged by a quick temper-had irritated my friend into speaking rashly was plain enough. Nevertheless, I felt some anxiety (jealous anxiety, I am afraid) about Cristel.
She was yawning over it fearfully, when she discovered that I was looking at her.
Old Toller was in the kitchen, smoking his pipe without appearing to enjoy it.
You mark my words: I'll be even with him."
He went on with his story without wanting questions to help him.
are you trying to startle me by acting a part?" I urged those questions on her, one after another; and I was loudly and confidently answered.
In his case I had failed to trace the motive.
"How is it you are not sure of that?" I said.
That fine girl of Toller's was standing at the door.
I'll be even with him.
Cristel counted the strokes.
Which do you admire-that gypsy complexion, or Lena's lovely skin?
I have not seen him; I have not heard from him.
When I woke, and got home again just now, that was how I found her.
Was this the dear Cristel so well known to me?
Obstinate about it.
mrs Roylake talked as fluently as ever; exhausting one common place subject after another, without the slightest allusion to my lord's daughter, to my matrimonial prospects, or to my visits at the mill.
As I turned suddenly, a living breath played on my face.
"The most precious sermons, Gerard, that have been written in our time." I looked at the book; I opened the book; I recovered my presence of mind, and handed it back.
Useless to speculate on it!
Leaves me to guess.
Even Lord Uppercliff (perhaps not yet taken into their confidence) noticed the proceedings of the two ladies, and seemed to be at a loss to understand them.
Without any cause that I knew of to account for it, I was so restless that nothing I could do attracted me or quieted me.
The man she was speaking of turned the corner of the new cottage.
"Have you seen Gloody to day?"
"I've got burdens on my mind," he explained, "or I should have thought of it too." Having done justice to his own abilities, he bustled out.
"You have surprised me," I answered.
More wonderful still, at every fair opportunity that offered, she kept out of my way.
I went back to the garden.
Hoping to speak with Cristel alone, I had arranged to reach the cottage before seven o'clock.
"I positively don't understand," said Anna, shrugging her shoulders-"He doesn't care," she thought.
Your too animated conversation this evening with Count Vronsky" (he enunciated the name firmly and with deliberate emphasis) "attracted attention."
She waited for a long while without moving, and had forgotten about him.
"You're always like that," she answered, as though completely misapprehending him, and of all he had said only taking in the last phrase.
"Perhaps I am mistaken, but believe me, what I say, I say as much for myself as for you.
"Of what?"
She both feared his speaking and wished for it.
Alexey Alexandrovitch paused, and rubbed his forehead and his eyes.
She spoke, and marveled at the confident, calm, and natural tone in which she was speaking, and the choice of the words she used.
"Well, let's talk, if it's so necessary.
That union can only be severed by a crime, and a crime of that nature brings its own chastisement."
For the first instant Alexey Alexandrovitch seemed, as it were, appalled at his own snoring, and ceased; but after an interval of two breathings the snore sounded again, with a new tranquil rhythm.
"Anna, it's necessary for me to have a talk with you."
On seeing her husband, Anna raised her head and smiled, as though she had just waked up.
"Well, I'm listening to what's to come," she said, calmly and ironically; "and indeed I listen with interest, for I should like to understand what's the matter."
How simple and natural were her words, and how likely that she was simply sleepy!
"Alexey Alexandrovitch, really I don't understand," she said.
"Anna, I must warn you," he began.
"Pardon, let me say all I have to say.
"Anna, is this you?" said Alexey Alexandrovitch, quietly making an effort over himself, and restraining the motion of his fingers.
Our life has been joined, not by man, but by God.
What about?" she asked, sitting down.
When she came into the bedroom, he was already in bed.
But he was silent.
In that case, I beg you to forgive me. But if you are conscious yourself of even the smallest foundation for them, then I beg you to think a little, and if your heart prompts you, to speak out to me..."
Alexey Alexandrovitch was unconsciously saying something utterly unlike what he had prepared.
"It's late, Alexey Alexandrovitch," she said, when she had gone through the doorway.
"This is what I meant to say to you," he went on coldly and composedly, "and I beg you to listen to it.
Alexey Alexandrovitch shivered, and bent his hands to make the joints crack.
She looked at him so simply, so brightly, that anyone who did not know her as her husband knew her could not have noticed anything unnatural, either in the sound or the sense of her words.
"Oh, please, don't do that, I do so dislike it," she said.
"Why, what is it?
I am your husband, and I love you."
"I don't understand a word.
She stopped, and bending her head back and on one side, began with her rapid hand taking out her hairpins.
I love you.
What a wonder!" she said, letting fall her hood, and without stopping, she went on into the dressing room.
"You're not in bed?
He doesn't even know what love is."
He talked and looked at her laughing eyes, which frightened him now with their impenetrable look, and, as he talked, he felt all the uselessness and idleness of his words.
And besides," she said hurriedly, with difficulty repressing a smile, "it's really time to be in bed."
"It's late, it's late," she whispered with a smile.
"But other people noticed it, and that's what upsets him."--"You're not well, Alexey Alexandrovitch," she added, and she got up, and would have gone towards the door; but he moved forward as though he would stop her.
But it would be better to get to sleep."
This evening it was not I observed it, but judging by the impression made on the company, everyone observed that your conduct and deportment were not altogether what could be desired."
"I have nothing to say.
His lips were sternly compressed, and his eyes looked away from her.
She thought: "Love?
She came out from behind the door of the dressing room, and looked at him.
She thought of that other; she pictured him, and felt how her heart was flooded with emotion and guilty delight at the thought of him. Suddenly she heard an even, tranquil snore.
But I am not speaking of myself; the most important persons in this matter are our son and yourself.
"To enter into all the details of your feelings I have no right, and besides, I regard that as useless and even harmful," began Alexey Alexandrovitch.
He saw that instead of doing as he had intended-that is to say, warning his wife against a mistake in the eyes of the world-he had unconsciously become agitated over what was the affair of her conscience, and was struggling against the barrier he fancied between them.
His face was ugly and forbidding, as Anna had never seen him.
If he hadn't heard there was such a thing as love, he would never have used the word.
She felt that some unseen force had come to her aid and was supporting her.
"But perhaps the key may yet be found," thought Alexey Alexandrovitch.
Alexey Alexandrovitch sighed, and, without saying more, went into the bedroom.
"Warn me?" she said.
Wherever a dragon's tooth had fallen, there stood a man armed for battle.
To say the truth, in the joy of beholding the object of his desires, the terrible dragon had quite slipped out of Jason's memory.
And, ever since that time, it has been the favorite method of brave men, when danger assails them, to do what they call "taking the bull by the horns"; and to gripe him by the tail is pretty much the same thing-that is, to throw aside fear, and overcome the peril by despising it.
"Yes, Jason," said the princess, "and I can tell you more.
That fierce and feverish fight was the only enjoyment which they had tasted on this beautiful earth.
While they were crossing the pasture ground, the brazen bulls came towards Jason, lowing, nodding their heads, and thrusting forth their snouts, which, as other cattle do, they loved to have rubbed and caressed by a friendly hand.
For your life, make haste!"
"Do you see it?"
Greatly encouraged at finding himself not yet turned into a cinder, the young man awaited the attack of the bulls.
So Jason scattered them broadcast, and harrowed them into the soil with a brush harrow, and took his stand on the edge of the field, anxious to see what would happen next.
At last, the front rank caught sight of Jason, who, beholding the flash of so many weapons in the moonlight, had thought it best to draw his sword.
"Whether sooner or later, it will be sure to come," answered the princess.
For a while, the warriors stood flourishing their weapons, clashing their swords against their shields, and boiling over with the red hot thirst for battle.
"Throw it among them quickly!" cried she.
Then there was a dazzling gleam from a vast number of polished brass helmets, beneath which, as they grew farther out of the soil, appeared the dark and bearded visages of warriors, struggling to free themselves from the imprisoning earth.
But be of good courage.
"A crop of armed men never fails to spring up, when the dragon's teeth have been sown."
I hope you have been considering the matter a little more wisely, and have concluded not to get yourself scorched to a cinder, in attempting to tame my brazen lunged bulls."
Wait for me here an hour before midnight."
She clapped her hands for joy, and beckoning him to make haste, disappeared among the duskiness of the trees.
But Lynceus, with his sharp eyes, had already caught a glimpse of him, bringing the Golden Fleece, although several stone walls, a hill, and the black shadows of the Grove of Mars, intervened between.
"Make haste, Prince Jason!
Then they began to shout-"Show us the enemy!
An antelope, that probably mistook the yellow radiance for sunrise, came bounding fleetly through the grove.
The first look that they gave at the upper world was a glare of wrath and defiance.
Jason caught the fleece from the tree, and hurried through the grove, the deep shadows of which were illuminated as he passed by the golden glory of the precious object that he bore along.
Entering the presence chamber, he stood at the foot of the throne, and made a low obeisance.
Indeed, it had heretofore been a great inconvenience to these poor animals, that, whenever they wished to eat a mouthful of grass, the fire out of their nostrils had shriveled it up, before they could manage to crop it.
Quick!
"Stay," said Medea, holding him back.
"On the contrary," answered Jason, "he is very angry with me for taming the brazen bulls and sowing the dragon's teeth.
"It has surely been dipped in the richest gold of sunset.
Jason knew that it would be impossible to withstand this blood thirsty battalion with his single arm, but determined, since there was nothing better to be done, to die as valiantly as if he himself had sprung from a dragon's tooth.
"Have you forgotten what guards it?"
As it approached, Medea tossed the contents of the gold box right down the monster's wide open throat. Immediately, with an outrageous hiss and a tremendous wriggle-flinging his tail up to the tip top of the tallest tree, and shattering all its branches as it crashed heavily down again-the dragon fell at full length upon the ground, and lay quite motionless.
Death or victory!" "Come on, brave comrades!
At any rate, our hero succeeded perfectly well in breaking up the greensward; and, by the time that the moon was a quarter of her journey up the sky, the plowed field lay before him, a large tract of black earth, ready to be sown with the dragon's teeth.
"True, the Golden Fleece may not be so valuable as you have thought it; but then there is nothing better in the world; and one must needs have an object, you know.
I forbid you, on pain of death, to make any more attempts to get the Golden Fleece.
Medea, however, bade him snatch up a stone from the ground.
And how it would have rejoiced any great captain, who was bent on conquering the world, like Alexander or Napoleon, to raise a crop of armed soldiers as easily as Jason did!
The dragon had probably heard the voices; for swift as lightning, his black head and forked tongue came hissing among the trees again, darting full forty feet at a stretch.
A little way before him, he beheld the old woman whom he had helped over the stream, with her peacock beside her.
Soon, however, something came to pass, that reminded him what perils were still to be encountered.
Jason answered only by drawing his sword, and making a step forward.
The gape of his enormous jaws was nearly as wide as the gateway of the king's palace.
Jason left the king's presence in great sorrow and anger.
"It is only a sleeping potion," said the enchantress to Prince Jason. "One always finds a use for these mischievous creatures, sooner or later; so I did not wish to kill him outright.
And he forbids me to make any more attempts, and positively refuses to give up the Golden Fleece, whether I slay the dragon or no"
"The world will always have simpletons enough, just like them, fighting and dying for they know not what, and fancying that posterity will take the trouble to put laurel wreaths on their rusty and battered helmets.
Immortal fame!" when he himself fell down, and lay quietly among his slain brethren.
Upon my word, as the head came waving and undulating through the air, and reaching almost within arm's length of Prince Jason, it was a very hideous and uncomfortable sight.
Jason went onward a few steps farther, and then stopped to gaze.
"Will he give you the Golden Fleece, without any further risk or trouble?"
These bright objects sprouted higher, and proved to be the steel heads of spears.
Could you help smiling, Prince Jason, to see the self conceit of that last fellow, just as he tumbled down?"
Had you acted fairly, you would have been, at this instant, a black cinder, or a handful of white ashes.
"Well, Jason," whispered Medea (for she was ill natured, as all enchantresses are, and wanted to make the bold youth tremble), "what do you think now of your prospect of winning the Golden Fleece?"
Lead us to the charge!
Just as the brazen brutes fancied themselves sure of tossing him into the air, he caught one of them by the horn, and the other by his screwed up tail, and held them in a gripe like that of an iron vice, one with his right hand, the other with his left.
"Look yonder," she whispered.
"Your eyes look heavy, Prince Jason," observed the king; "you appear to have spent a sleepless night.
"You will think differently in the morning," said Medea.
The Golden Fleece you shall have, if it lies within the power of my enchantments to get it for you.
Let me hasten onward, and take it to my bosom."
Come!
Espying the two winged sons of the North Wind (who were disporting themselves in the moonlight, a few hundred feet aloft), Jason bade them tell the rest of the Argonauts to embark as speedily as possible.
"That is already accomplished, may it please your majesty," replied Jason.
It is the Golden Fleece."
You have won the Golden Fleece."
With one bound, he leaped aboard.
Victory!
When the princes understood whither the Argonauts were going, they offered to turn back, and guide them to Colchis.
It would grieve us to the heart, if you and your nine and forty brave companions should be eaten up, at fifty mouthfuls, by this execrable dragon."
You cannot imagine in what a mere twinkling of an eye their hot breath shrivels a young man into a black cinder."
Are you an enchantress?"
It will be excellent sport, I assure you, when they catch a glimpse of your figure.
Why, if you will believe me, they were the sons of that very Phrixus, who, in his childhood, had been carried to Colchis on the back of the golden fleeced ram.
At all events, turn back who may, I will never see Greece again, unless I carry with me the Golden Fleece."
"I have heard," rejoined the youth, "that a dragon lies beneath the tree on which the prize hangs, and that whoever approaches him runs the risk of being devoured at a mouthful."
At the same time, however, they spoke as if it were very doubtful whether Jason would succeed in getting the Golden Fleece.
If you will trust to me, I can instruct you how to tame the fiery bulls, and sow the dragon's teeth, and get the Golden Fleece."
But, in my view of the matter, the dragon is merely a pretty large serpent, who is not half so likely to snap me up at one mouthful as I am to cut off his ugly head, and strip the skin from his body.
"Very true, young man.
"My young friends," quietly replied Jason, "I do not wonder that you think the dragon very terrible.
It is well for you that I am favorably inclined; for, otherwise, you would hardly escape being snapped up by the dragon."
At some distance before him he perceived four streams of fiery vapor, regularly appearing and again vanishing, after dimly lighting up the surrounding obscurity.
There is a furnace in each of their stomachs; and they breathe such hot fire out of their mouths and nostrils, that nobody has hitherto gone nigh them without being instantly burned to a small, black cinder.
For my part, I enjoy it immensely.
They are an unruly set of reprobates, those sons of the dragon's teeth; and unless you treat them suitably, they will fall upon you sword in hand.
"My master Chiron," replied Jason, "taught me, long ago, the story of Cadmus.
"Indeed, beautiful princess," answered Jason, "if you will do me this service, I promise to be grateful to you my whole life long."' Gazing at Medea, he beheld a wonderful intelligence in her face.
I am acquainted with some of your secrets, you perceive.
Now, who do you imagine these two voyagers turned out to be?
"Pray, are you on a pleasure voyage?--Or do you meditate the discovery of unknown islands?--or what other cause has procured me the happiness of seeing you at my court?"
"Only be brave," added she, "and before daybreak the brazen bulls shall be tamed."
You and your nine and forty Argonauts, my bold Jason, are hardly numerous or strong enough to fight with such a host as will spring up."
According to their account, the tree on which it hung was guarded by a terrible dragon, who never failed to devour, at one mouthful, every person who might venture within his reach.
These, you will understand, were caused by the breath of the brazen bulls, which was quietly stealing out of their four nostrils, as they lay chewing their cuds.
So intensely hot it was, indeed, that it caught a dry tree under which Jason was now standing, and set it all in a light blaze.
But there are other things as hard, or perhaps a little harder, to be done before you can even have the privilege of being devoured by the dragon.
What do you think of this, my brave Jason?"
She fixed her eyes earnestly upon the youthful stranger, and listened attentively to every word that was spoken; and when Jason withdrew from the king's presence, this young woman followed him out of the room.
"We will none of us turn back!" cried his nine and forty brave comrades. "Let us get on board the galley this instant; and if the dragon is to make a breakfast of us, much good may it do him."
"True," said the king, with a smile that did not look particularly good-natured.
Medea then led Jason down the palace steps, and through the silent streets of the city, and into the royal pasture ground, where the two brazen footed bulls were kept.
So she put a golden box into his hand, and directed him how to apply the perfumed unguent which it contained, and where to meet her at midnight.
She gave him a basket, in which were the dragon's teeth, just as they had been pulled out of the monster's jaws by Cadmus, long ago.
It makes a holiday in Colchis whenever such a thing happens.
Well, Prince Jason," he continued, aloud, and as complaisantly as he could, "make yourself comfortable for to day, and to morrow morning, since you insist upon it, you shall try your skill at the plow."
While the king talked with Jason, a beautiful young woman was standing behind the throne.
After entering the pasture, the princess paused and looked around.
"Yes, Prince Jason," answered Medea, with a smile, "you have hit upon the truth.
"I must encounter the peril," answered Jason, composedly, "since it stands in the way of my purpose."
A slow movement was tried (the Valhalla motif).
It crackled like a mighty fire.
In doing this, he set his coat on fire, when he trampled it under foot.
He stood there, stooping, eyes set, and vacant, fast asleep.
They are fast.
He sarcastically asked him if he "didn't want the earth."
Try.
Then he stopped.
They have killed him!"
The contusion, or rather the contused wound appeared,--an oval below the chest between the third and fourth ribs.
Pencroft was silent, but a reaction set in, and great tears rolled down his cheeks.
"But the heart?" asked Harding.
"No, Pencroft," replied Cyrus Harding, "no!
"Yes," answered the reporter, "but now we have the right to be merciless!"
Herbert was still in a sleep.
"Quick!"
"Quick!" said Harding.
Chapter seven
"Dead!" exclaimed Pencroft, with a groan.
Gideon Spilett, at the moment he scaled the palisade, had clearly seen some one of the convicts running along the southern spur of Mount Franklin, towards whom Top had sprung.
While the engineer thought, his eyes fell on Top, who, going backwards and forwards seemed to say,--
But for your boy's sake, calm yourself.
Had he resisted, and been overcome in the struggle?
He has even uttered a moan.
He will be sure to come!"
Almost immediately Top bounded into the corral, and the gate was quickly shut.
"No, Pencroft," replied the reporter.
They could not speak.
Herbert was deadly pale, and his pulse so feeble that Spilett only felt it beat at long intervals, as if it was on the point of stopping.
Reply by Top."
It was folded and fastened to Top's collar in a conspicuous position.
You must aid me with your advice, your experience!"
"He will get there!" said the reporter.
"Yes, Top will go," said the reporter, who had understood the engineer.
He is not dead.
Neb! Go, go!"
"Do not make us lose it, my friend."
"Yes, and he will come back, the faithful animal!"
"The heart has not been touched; if it had been, Herbert would be dead!"
"Ten."
But that is impossible now!
And he ran round the left corner of the palisade.
I will not stir.
Spilett, seeing there was nothing he could do at that moment, busied himself in preparing some nourishment, while attentively watching that part of the enclosure against the hill, at which an attack might be expected.
Now, what styptics, what antiphlogistics ought to be employed?
His pulse still beats.
"Neb, Top!
"He lives," said he, "but he must be carried-"
The road to the corral was familiar to him.
There he found a convict, who aiming at him, sent a ball through his hat.
Herberts back was covered with blood from another contused wound, by which the ball had immediately escaped.
"He must not be moved." said Gideon Spilett.
Poor mr Herbert!"
The engineer opened the gate, and seeing smoke a hundred feet off in the wood, he fired in that direction.
"Judge coolly.
Think only of this: Herbert must be saved!"
We have need of all our self possession."
"In a moment," said Harding.
As to leaving Pencroft and Herbert here alone, we could not do it!
"Am not I here?"
Neither the engineer nor the reporter could calm him.
The ammunition only, with which Ayrton had been supplied, had disappeared with him.
The animal sprang at his master's call.
"Top, my dog," said the engineer, caressing the animal, "Neb, Top!
"They have killed him!" he cried.
"What o'clock is it?" asked Gideon Spilett.
"Ah, if the telegraph still acted, he might be warned!
We will watch for his return."
Nor could they see traces of any struggle, any devastation, either in the hut, or in the palisade.
Top sprang forwards, then almost immediately disappeared.
"Herbert wounded.
Top bounded at these words.
"What! can't we carry him to Granite House?" asked Pencroft.
"I'll pay the villains off!" cried the sailor, shaking his fist in a menacing manner.
I am in terrible perplexity.
He understood, he knew what was expected of him.
Ayrton is indebted to him as much as we are, for, if it was the stranger who saved me from the waves after the fall from the balloon, evidently it was he who wrote the document, who placed the bottle in the channel, and who has made known to us the situation of our companion.
I have no right to speak."
Therefore, whoever he may be, whether shipwrecked, or exiled on our island, we shall be ungrateful, if we think ourselves freed from gratitude towards him.
Was it he who threw us that bottle, when the vessel made her first cruise?
What do you think, Ayrton?" added Pencroft, turning to his companion.
It was also the time for collecting the various vegetables from the Tabor Island plants.
"Yes," said Gideon Spilett, "but his reserve does him honor, and it is right to respect the feeling which he has about his sad past."
The products of the colony were there, methodically arranged, and in a safe place, as may be believed, sheltered as much from animals as from man.
I have, therefore, reason to believe that our guns will bear without risk the expansion of the pyroxyle gas, and will give excellent results."
At any rate, for humanity's sake alone, it would be right to wait.
From this height they commanded all Union Bay.
"I believe so.
He had never thought of his proposal being met with any objection.
"No doubt because it was not their interest to do it.
Would they be right in the future?
They were not to attack them, but were to be on their guard.
"Believe me, Pencroft," replied the engineer, "it would be better not to have to make the experiment."
"I will do as you please, Captain Harding," answered the sailor, who was not at all convinced.
It was like a little Gibraltar, and any vessel anchored off the islet would inevitably be exposed to the fire of this aerial battery.
The "Speedy" had not been able to withstand a torpedo that would have destroyed an ironclad as easily as a fishing boat!
There is a mystery still, but if we discover the man, the mystery will be discovered also.
"Pencroft," said the engineer, "you have always shown much deference to my advice; will you, in this matter, yield to me?"
It was Herbert who had pointed this gun and fired it, and very proud he was of his first shot.
Yes! all was explained, everything-except the presence of the torpedo in the waters of the channel!
"I thank you, Ayrton," answered Cyrus Harding, "but I should like a more direct answer to the question I put to you.
"We shall be a great deal more certain of that when we have tried them!" answered Pencroft.
The second gun was pointed at the rocks at the end of Flotsam Point, and the shot striking a sharp rock nearly three miles from Granite House, made it fly into splinters.
"Be it so," answered Harding, "but that is not an answer, Pencroft."
"Everybody is against me!
Such a shot, the honor of which belonged to his dear boy.
No matter!
It is unnecessary to say that the four cannons were in perfect order. Since they had been taken from the water, the sailor had bestowed great care upon them.
"Do you think that is useful?" asked the engineer.
We have contracted a debt, and I hope that we shall one day pay it."
We will search into its most secret recesses, and will hope that our unknown friend will pardon us in consideration of our intentions!"
Pencroft understood.
If they each lay hid in a corner, and each fired at one of us, they would soon be masters of the colony!"
"And you, Ayrton?" asked the engineer.
It was under the action of this cylinder, charged with some explosive substance, nitro glycerine, picrate, or some other material of the same nature, that the water of the channel had been raised like a dome, the bottom of the brig crushed in, and she had sunk instantly, the damage done to her hull being so considerable that it was impossible to refloat her.
"Isn't what they have done already enough?" asked Pencroft, who did not understand these scruples.
These pirates are regular jaguars, and it seems to me we ought not to hesitate to treat them as such!
Pencroft looked at his companions one after the other.
It seems to me that these ruffians have no right to any pity, and that we ought to rid the island of them as soon as possible."
"He became an honest man again!"
"Captain Harding," replied Ayrton, "I can give you no better advice in this matter.
"I am of Neb's opinion," said Gideon Spilett, "but that is no reason for not attempting the adventure.
"Pencroft, think of Ayrton!" said Herbert, taking the sailor's hand.
You wish to be generous to those villains!
But to return to the question.
No, I will never forget him!"
Perhaps he is alone. Perhaps he is suffering.
Without that how are we to know to what distance we can send one of those pretty shot with which we are provided?"
Before putting their project of exploring the yet unknown parts of the island into execution, they wished to get all possible work finished.
His rough nature could not allow that they ought to come to terms with the rascals who had landed on the island with Bob Harvey's accomplices, the murderers of the crew of the "Speedy," and he looked upon them as wild beasts which ought to be destroyed without delay and without remorse.
Was it not their interest in the situation in which they found themselves to begin a new life?
All was stowed away, and happily there was no want of room in Granite House, in which they might have housed all the treasures of the island.
"Is that your opinion, Pencroft?" asked the engineer.
"Possibly, mr Spilett," replied the sailor, "but that is how I imagine him!"
All the pirates in the Pacific have only to present themselves before Granite House!
"Poor Ayrton!
"But, Pencroft," answered Spilett, "you are describing a picture of the Creator."
How many hours he had spent, in rubbing, greasing, and polishing them, and in cleaning the mechanism!
Who this beneficent stranger is, whose intervention has, so fortunately for us, been manifested on many occasions, I cannot imagine. What his object can be in acting thus, in concealing himself after rendering us so many services, I cannot understand: But his services are not the less real, and are of such a nature that only a man possessed of prodigious power, could render them.
Whether we find this mysterious being or not, we shall at least have fulfilled our duty towards him."
Perhaps he has a life to be renewed.
He has as much right to speak here as any one!"
"You are right in speaking thus, my dear Cyrus," replied Gideon Spilett. "Yes, there is an almost all powerful being, hidden in some part of the island, and whose influence has been singularly useful to our colony. I will add that the unknown appears to possess means of action which border on the supernatural, if in the events of practical life the supernatural were recognizable.
Besides, we are six also."
The shot, passing over the islet, fell into the sea at a distance which could not be calculated with exactitude.
Are we to leave them to overrun our forests, our fields, our plantations?
"They may adopt other sentiments!" said Harding, "and perhaps repent."
Pencroft only was prouder than he!
The reporter's reasoning was just, and every one felt it to be so.
"And you, my boy, give us your opinion," said the engineer, turning to Herbert.
"We will begin our researches as soon as possible.
Ayrton hesitated at first to reply, and Cyrus Harding regretted that Pencroft had so thoughtlessly put this question.
"I have been one of those jaguars, mr Pencroft.
Chapter five
Therefore it is, thanks to him, that I have become a man again.
The third shot, aimed this time at the downs forming the upper side of Union Bay, struck the sand at a distance of four miles, then having ricocheted: was lost in the sea in a cloud of spray.
It was he, it could be only he who must have come to Tabor Island, who found there the wretch you knew, and who made known to you that there was an unfortunate man there to be saved.
So, then, all was explained by the submarine explosion of this torpedo. Cyrus Harding could not be mistaken, as, during the war of the Union, he had had occasion to try these terrible engines of destruction.
Not one can land there now without our permission!"
Was it he who threw Top out of the lake, and killed the dugong?
"Very well, wait, and we will not attack them unless we are attacked first."
Thus their behavior towards the pirates was agreed upon, although Pencroft augured nothing good from it.
"My opinion," said Pencroft, "is that, whoever he may be, he is a brave man, and he has my esteem!"
I would rather bite my tongue off than cause Ayrton any pain!
I, too, as you said, have a debt of gratitude to pay him.
"Captain," said Pencroft one day, it was the eighth of November, "now that our fortifications are finished, it would be a good thing if we tried the range of our guns."
At present, the colonists had reason on their side against Pencroft.
Hitherto they had only wild beasts to guard against, and now six convicts of the worst description, perhaps, were roaming over their island.
"That's not bad, what you say, Neb," observed Pencroft.
"Why have they not done so?" said Herbert.
If it was he, he possesses a power which renders him master of the elements."
What is your opinion on the matter?"
Speak, therefore."
"Well, well!" replied Pencroft, whom no reasoning could have convinced. "Let us leave these good people to do what they like, and don't think anything more about them!"
"And before hunting them mercilessly, you would not wait until they had committed some fresh act of hostility against us?"
"Master," then said Neb, "my idea is, that we may search as long as we like for this gentleman whom you are talking about, but that we shall not discover him till he pleases."
Whatever you do will be best; when you wish me to join you in your researches, I am ready to follow you.
For the fourth piece Cyrus Harding slightly increased the charge, so as to try its extreme range.
"Yes," rejoined Cyrus Harding, "if the intervention of a human being is not more questionable for us, I agree that he has at his disposal means of action beyond those possessed by humanity.
There was no fear of damp in the middle of that thick mass of granite. Many natural excavations situated in the upper passage were enlarged either by pick axe or mine, and Granite House thus became a general warehouse, containing all the provisions, arms, tools, and spare utensils-in a word, all the stores of the colony.
"Try them, Pencroft," replied the engineer.
"Well," said the sailor, "what ought to be done with regard to those six villains who are roaming about the island?
After all, the island was large and fertile. If any sentiment of honesty yet remained in the bottom of their hearts, these wretches might perhaps be reclaimed.
Very well; I hope we mayn't repent it!"
And now the pieces were as brilliant as if they had been on board a frigate of the United States Navy.
And with a slow step he walked away.
We will not leave a corner of the island unexplored.
"Quite my opinion."
As to the guns obtained from the brig, they were pretty pieces of ordnance, which, at Pencroft's entreaty, were hoisted by means of tackle and pulleys, right up into Granite House; embrasures were made between the windows, and the shining muzzles of the guns could soon be seen through the granite cliff.
In the fabrication of these pieces, everything depends on employing a metal with the highest possible power of resistance, and steel is incontestably that metal of all others which resists the best.
The new ghost has a more nimble and versatile tongue as well as wit.
But the fact remains that in spite of conceded and admirable examples, the humorous ghost story is for the most part American in creation and spirit. Washington Irving might be said to have started that fashion in skeletons and shades, for he has given us various comic haunters, some real and some make believe.
All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
Frank r Stockton gave his to funny spooks with a riotous and laughing pen.
Suppose each one of us were to be haunted by his own inane utterances?
Ancient ghosts were a long faced lot.
Now the ghost has learned to have a variety of good times, and he can make the living squirm far more satisfyingly than in the past.
The modern humorous ghost satirizes everything from the old-fashioned specter (he's very fond of taking pot shots at him) to the latest psychic manifestations.
There are various English stories of whimsical haunting, some of actual spooks and some of the hoax type.
He needs no dungeon keeps and monkish cells to play about in-not he!
And there are very few funny child ghosts-you might almost say none, in comparison with the number of grown ups.
This is a LibriVox recording.
He adds new horrors to being haunted, but new pleasures also.
Many Americans there are to day who would court being haunted by the captain and crew of Richard Middleton's Ghost Ship that landed in a turnip field and dispensed drink till they demoralized the denizens of village and graveyard alike.
This travesty on the conventional traditions of the wraith is preposterously delightful, one of the cleverest ghost stories in our language.
Or possibly a woman knows that a masculine spook is, after all, only a man, and therefore may be charmed into helplessness, while the feminine can be seen through by another woman and thus disarmed.
The humorous ghost is distinctly a modern character.
In fact, it's money in one's pocket these days to be dead, for ghosts have no rent problems, and dead men pay no bills.
He loves to shake the lugubrious terrors of the past before you, exposing their hollow futility, and he contrives to create new fears for you magically while you are laughing at him.
The new ghost hates conventionality and uses the old thrills only to show what dead batteries they come from.
Or perhaps the authors were doubtful as to the dialogue of shades, and compromised on a few stately ejaculations as being safely phantasmal speaking parts.
The modern spook is possessed not only of humor but of a caustic satire as well.
They had been brought up in stern repression of frivolities as haunters-no matter how sportive they may have been in life-and in turn they cowed mortals into a servile submission.
After that show of spirits, the turnips in that field tasted of rum, long after the ghost ship had sailed away into the blue.
He knows that there's no weapon, no threat, in horror, to be compared with ridicule.
No-manifestly death has compensations not connected with the consolations of religion.
Think what a solemn creature the Gothic ghost was!
Think of having always-and always-to speak a dead language!
The ghost of to day touches the funny bone as well.
His sole appeal was to the spinal column.
And there are others.
Now it takes more than that to produce a panic.
I should think that some of the futile, laggard messenger boy ghosts that one reads about nowadays would blush with shame before the wholesome raillery of the porgy fisherman.
HUMOROUS GHOST STORIES
The marvel is that apparitions were so long in realizing their possibilities, in improving their advantages.
They didn't know how to play at all.
A mortal was expected to rise when a ghost entered the room, and in case he was slow about it, his spine gave notice of what etiquette demanded. In the event of outdoor apparition, if a man failed to bare his head in awe, the roots of his hair reminded him of his remissness.
The French and English selections in this volume are sufficient to prove the contrary.
This is a rich story almost spoiled by being poorly told.
His really electrical effects are his own inventions.
Nowadays haunters have more fun and freedom than the haunted.
Even young female wraiths, demanding latchkeys, refuse to obey the frowning face of the clock, and engage in light-hearted ebullience to make the ghost of mrs Grundy turn a shade paler in horror.
In that we have a conventional young bachelor, engaged to a charming girl, who is entangled in social complications and made to suffer mental torment because, without his consent, he has been chosen as the nurse and guardian of a ghost baby that cradles after him wherever he goes.
The stories by Eden Phillpotts and Richard Middleton in this collection show the diversity of the English humor as associated with apparitions, and are entertaining in themselves.
He has a keen sense of humor and loves a good joke on a mortal, while he can even enjoy one on himself.
Woman has always had the advantage over man in such emergency, in that her locks, being long and pinned up, are less easily moved-which may explain the fact (if it be a fact!) that in fiction women have shown themselves more self possessed in ghostly presence than men.
We feel downright neighborly toward such specters as the futile "last ghost" Nelson Lloyd evokes for us, as we appreciate the satire of Rose O'Neill's sophisticated wraith.
Zangwill has written engagingly of spooks, with a laughable story about Samuel Johnson.
But in these days of individualism and radical liberalism, spooks as well as mortals are expanding their personalities and indulging in greater freedom.
The modern specter can be a joyous creature on occasion, as he can be, when he wishes, fearsome beyond the dreams of classic or Gothic revenant.
Some of these new spooks are notoriously good company.
A ghost can call his shade his own now, and exhibit any mood he pleases.
The up-to-date ghost keeps his skeleton in a garage or some place where it is cleaned and oiled and kept in good working order.
The majority of the comic apparitions, curiously enough, are masculine.
And suppose a ghost brought into court demanded trial by a jury of his peers?
Though his fun is of comparatively recent origin-it's less than a century since he learned to crack a smile-the laughing ghost is very much alive and sportively active.
BY
He demands no rag nor bone nor clank of chain of his old equipment to start on his career.
The field is still comparatively limited, but a number of Americans have done distinctive work in it.
There are a few instances, as in the case of the ghost baby mentioned later, but very few.
The modern wraith has sold his sheet to the old clo'es man, and dresses as in life.
The specters in classic and medieval literature were malarial, vaporous beings without energy to do anything but threaten, and mortals never would have trembled with fear at their frown if they had known how feeble they were.
The spook of to day enjoys making his haunted laugh even while he groans in terror.
Or maybe the reason lies in the fact that men have written most of the comic or satiric ghost stories, and have chivalrously spared the gentler shades.
No doubt they thought of men and women as mere youngsters that must be taught their place, since any living person, however senile, would be thought juvenile compared with a timeless spook.
But compare that usage with the rude freedom of some modern spooks, as john Kendrick Bangs's spectral cook of Bangletop, who lets fall her h's and twists grammar in a rare and diverting manner.
In early literature wraiths took themselves very seriously, and insisted on a proper show of respectful fear on the part of those whom they honored by haunting.
john Kendrick Bangs has made the darker regions seem comfortable and homelike for us, and has created ghosts so human and so funny that we look forward to being one-or more.
He laughs at ghosts that aren't experts in efficiency haunting, and he has a lot of fun out of mortals for being scared of specters.
--NED KNOWLES.
He was a man of courage undoubtedly.
At length he spoke; offering some objection to a point insisted upon by r, and giving his reasons in detail.
But, letting this matter pass for the present, I will merely observe that, from the first moment of his setting foot within the limits of the university, he began to exercise over the habits, manners, persons, purses, and propensities of the whole community which surrounded him, an influence the most extensive and despotic, yet at the same time the most indefinite and altogether unaccountable.
I remember the buzz of curiosity which his advent excited within the college precincts on the night of the twenty fifth of June.
With sentiments of profound respect,
For a short time he remained silent, apparently striving to master his emotion.
In no instance before that of which I speak, have I known the habitual mystific escape the natural consequence of his manoevres-an attachment of the ludicrous to his own character and person.
Having perused the cartel, he wrote the following reply, which I carried to Hermann.
To these Quixotic notions some recent Parisian publications, backed by three or four desperate and fatal conversation, during the greater part of the night, had run wild upon the all-engrossing topic of the times.
With sentiments of perfect respect,
They abounded in the most ultra German opinions respecting the duello.
Your most obedient servant,
He appeared to be stifling with passion, and his face was cadaverously white.
He became pale, then excessively red; then, dropping his pocket handkerchief, stooped to recover it, when I caught a glimpse of his countenance, while it could be seen by no one else at the table. It was radiant with the quizzical expression which was its natural character, but which I had never seen it assume except when we were alone together, and when he unbent himself freely.
My acquaintance with Ritzner commenced at the magnificent Chateau Jung, into which a train of droll adventures, not to be made public, threw a place in his regard, and here, with somewhat more difficulty, a partial insight into his mental conformation.
There were the "Ordonnance of Philip le Bel on Single Combat"; the "Theatre of Honor," by Favyn, and a treatise "On the Permission of Duels," by Andiguier.
The adroitness, too, was no less worthy of observation by which he contrived to shift the sense of the grotesque from the creator to the created-from his own person to the absurdities to which he had given rise.
To the Baron Ritzner von Jung,
In later days this insight grew more clear, as the intimacy which had at first permitted it became more close; and when, after three years of the character of the Baron Ritzner von Jung.
"Your opinions, allow me to say, Baron von Jung, although in the main correct, are, in many nice points, discreditable to yourself and to the university of which you are a member.
Upon one occasion we had protracted our sitting until nearly daybreak, and an unusual quantity of wine had been drunk.
As Hermann went out, the Baron whispered me that I should follow him and make an offer of my services.
The company consisted of seven or eight individuals besides the Baron and myself.
He contrived to bear, however, among a particular set at the university, a reputation for deep metaphysical thinking, and, I believe, for some logical talent.
That he was unique appeared so undeniable, that it was deemed impertinent to inquire wherein the uniquity consisted.
I truly think that no person at the university, with the exception of myself, ever suspected him to be capable of a joke, verbal or practical:--the old bull dog at the garden gate would sooner have been accused,--the ghost of Heraclitus,--or the wig of the Emeritus Professor of Theology.
Some courtesy, nevertheless, is due to the presence of this company, and to yourself, at this moment, as my guest.
Sir,--My friend, m p-, will hand you this note.
He was by no means a handsome man-perhaps the reverse.
SIR,--Through our common friend, mr p, I have received your note of this evening.
Most of these were young men of wealth, of high connection, of great family pride, and all alive with an exaggerated sense of honor.
With this answer he seemed flattered, and sat down to write a note to the Baron.
It ran thus:
I quaintly termed the domination of the Baron Ritzner von Jung, ever rightly entered into the mystery which overshadowed his character.
With these words he hurled the decanter, full of wine, against the mirror which hung directly opposite Hermann; striking the reflection of his person with great precision, and of course shattering the glass into fragments.
He displayed, also, with much pomposity, Brantome's "Memoirs of Duels,"--published at Cologne, sixteen sixty six, in the types of Elzevir-a precious and unique vellum paper volume, with a fine margin, and bound by Derome.
As the former proceeded in his discourse, or rather monologue I perceived the excitement of the latter momently increasing.
This gentleman, whom I shall call Hermann, was an original in every respect-except, perhaps, in the single particular that he was a very great fool.
Turning to the passage specified, he read it with great care to himself, then closed the book, and desired me, in my character of confidential acquaintance, to express to the Baron von Jung his exalted sense of his chivalrous behavior, and, in that of second, to assure him that the explanation offered was of the fullest, the most honorable, and the most unequivocally satisfactory nature.
The whole company at once started to their feet, and, with the exception of myself and Ritzner, took their departure.
For a moment I even fancied that I had misconceived him, and that he was in sober earnest.
Having finished the chapter, he closed the book, and demanded what I thought necessary to be done. I replied that I had entire confidence in his superior delicacy of feeling, and would abide by what he proposed.
I remember still more distinctly, that while he was pronounced by all parties at first sight "the most remarkable man in the world," no person made any attempt at accounting for his opinion.
Thus the brief period of his residence at the university forms an era in its annals, and is characterized by all classes of people appertaining to it or its dependencies as "that very extraordinary epoch forming the domination of the Baron Ritzner von Jung." then of no particular age, by which I mean that it was impossible to form a guess respecting his age by any data personally afforded.
About the mouth there was more to be observed.
Looking around me during a pause in the Baron's discourse (of which my readers may gather some faint idea when I say that it bore resemblance to the fervid, chanting, monotonous, yet musical sermonic manner of Coleridge), I perceived symptoms of even more than the general interest in the countenance of one of the party.
Upon due reflection I frankly admit the propriety of the explanation you suggest.
The lips were gently protruded, and rested the one upon the other, after such a fashion that it is impossible to conceive any, even the most complex, combination of human features, conveying so entirely, and so singly, the idea of unmitigated gravity, solemnity and repose.
The contour of his face was somewhat angular and harsh.
The hobby of Hermann now took the bit in his teeth.
Having finished reading, he begged me, with the blandest of all possible smiles, to be seated, while he made reference to the treatise in question.
To these the Baron replied at length (still maintaining his exaggerated tone of sentiment) and concluding, in what I thought very bad taste, with a sarcasm and a sneer.
This being done, there will be no difficulty whatever. I shall discharge this decanter of wine at your image in yonder mirror, and thus fulfil all the spirit, if not the exact letter, of resentment for your insult, while the necessity of physical violence to your real person will be obviated."
After a tiresome harangue in his ordinary style, he took down from his book shelves a number of musty volumes on the subject of the duello, and entertained me for a long time with their contents; reading aloud, and commenting earnestly as he read.
I can just remember the titles of some of the works.
I did so, but to little purpose, not being able to gather the least particle of meaning.
The key to the whole was found in leaving out every second and third word alternately, when there appeared a series of ludicrous quizzes upon a single combat as practised in modern times.
Your most humble servant,
In the event of your declining this request, mr p will be happy to arrange, with any friend whom you may appoint, the steps preliminary to a meeting.
As a duellist he had acquired who had fallen at his hands; but they were many.
To this I agreed; not knowing precisely what to make of so ridiculous a piece of business.
His last words I distinctly remember.
This I could discern by the studied hair splitting farrago of his rejoinder.
As Hermann completed this equivocal sentence, all eyes were turned upon the Baron.
Somewhat amazed at all this, I made my retreat to the Baron.
It will be perceived, no doubt, from what I have already said, that the Baron was one of those human anomalies now and then to be found, who make the science of mystification the study and the business of their lives.
This, too, when it was evident that the most egregious and unpardonable of all conceivable tricks, whimsicalities and buffooneries were brought about, if not directly by him, at least plainly through his intermediate agency or connivance.
To Ritzner, ever upon the lookout for the grotesque, his peculiarities had for a long time past afforded food for mystification.
VON JUNG.
His forehead was lofty and very fair; his nose a snub; his eyes large, heavy, glassy, and meaningless.
Upon this hint he proceeded.
The name of their Redeemer, phonetically rendered, is Kerm Cher.
Spare me a detailed description of this peculiar traveling system.
Announcements for private gain are paid at a regular rate.
On this world, of Brief all vegetables mature in periods so short that one marvels when he hears it.
If you were permitted to look upon the public and private life of this incredible world, your first sensation would be dizziness, not to mention the weirdness of all sights that would confront you at every turn.
THEIR RAIMENT.
Their raiment is altogether after new models.
Strange as it may seem, this sphere, which for convenience we will call Brief, revolves very slowly on its axis, so that our world makes fifteen times as many revolutions as this planet.
Of course, people take their choice as to reading advertisements.
They never think of covering the feet under any change of climate.
The government verifies, as much as possible, all reports before they are transmitted.
They look upon this gravity system as a wonderful achievement, for it has not been in operation for more than three hundred years.
The power of steam has never been utilized.
There being no competition, no time or space is required for sensational trash.
RELIGIOUS LIFE.
This is principally due to their lack of time.
THEIR FOOTWEAR.
Furrows of care and trouble begin to deepen on the faces of these Briefites as they approach an age of what we would call three years, and if by lease of strength they pass on toward an age of four years, it is but an evidence of their exceptional vitality.
They are nearly as large as we and relatively much lighter in weight.
Suffice it to say that a person, in lightning rapidity of motion, rushes from a store, springs upon a passing seat and is hurled away by the power of an overhead cable system.
Similar to Christ, he confirmed his identity by unanswerable miracles.
They are much purer in morals, more refined in manner, more harmonious in government, and unusually bright in mathematics.
Children walk four or five weeks after birth, and are capable of receiving regular instruction at the age of five months.
Thus, if nothing of importance occurs, nothing need be transmitted.
CHAPTER twenty.
For instance, a strong fabric of chosen shade is fastened at the neck, hip, knee and ankle, and lies carelessly over the parts between.
It costs more to advertise at certain periods than at other times, all regulated by the customs of the people.
Many, however, disbelieved in Kerm Cher, and held to the old axiomatic truths.
Their Redeemer is worshiped quite separately from God, and with distinctive adorations.
Think of cereals reaching maturity in seven or eight of our days, or during one day of Brief.
But compared to our customs, the news is very scarce.
Things happen in such quick succession that the news is hustled out at all hours of the day and night; not on sheets of paper, but through automatic news receivers, machines somewhat akin to our telegraph instruments.
All the periods of physical growth are correspondingly decreased.
Quadrupeds that take the place of our horses are used for drayage, although nothing except the two wheeled class of vehicles was ever used until some eighty seven years ago.
In a city of Brief, overhead tracks after such an order run along all business streets and certain residence streets.
The religious life of the people of Brief is, on an average, of a higher type than is found in our world.
Thus creeds were prevalent and they remain until now, only there is much less variety than is found amongst us.
If one of the Briefites were to step upon the shores of our rugged Earth and see the cotton or wool and leather that lies around our feet, it would appear to him as the most ridiculous thing imaginable, and no doubt his shapely feet of ivory cast would be of more than passing interest to us.
It appears that on all worlds everything is regulated in accordance with the length of human life.
The most faithful translation of this word into our language would be God affluence.
There are indeed some advantages in the government being in constant touch with each home under its care. The advertising department pays nearly all expenses of this whole system of journalism.
Early in the morning certain crops are planted and are harvested at night.
JOURNALISM.
I have no words of praise for this system, although the Briefites can cover considerable territory in an hour.
But they have discovered what we would call gaseous oil, and have learned to put it to work, so that it is the main force employed in hoisting and all other purposes where power is required.
Their garments partake of the loose flowing order.
Nothing like a traveling locomotive has ever been made, although I learned that a bright wizard was experimenting and that he prophesied great changes when his gas propelled vehicle was perfected.
The females never graduated to the corset degree, and while they do not cut a scientific figure, yet they surely develop a more ruddy waist after the model intended by the Designor of the body.
Now he wanted to join forces with his own kind, whether those men were potential enemies or not.
Dark pits for eyes showed no pupil, iris, or cornea.
He hoped they did not willingly venture out of the trees where the leaves were their protection.
That was the man from the room-the man with the cup!
As Rynch sighted him, he stooped to recover the needler he had dropped, lurched away from the rock towards the water, and so blundered straight into another Jumalan trap.
Another object crouched in the dark of the lean to shelter, just as its fellow was on sentry duty in the tree!
Rynch got to his feet, walked with slow deliberation down to the river's brink.
At the sight of that man, dream and reality had crashed together, sending him into panic stricken flight.
There was a spitting of sparks and the stranger worked frantically at the buckle of the webbing harness to loosen it and toss the whole thing from him.
And, since it had not turned its head, he could not be sure it had even sighted him.
And he could still hear the echoes of the startled cries which had come from the men who had threaded through the woods to the up pointed tail fins of the L B.
He pushed back into the bushes while the sparks still flitted, but they no longer gathered in strength enough to light his presence.
He continued to keep them whirling by means of waving hand and arm, but there was enough light to show Rynch the fingers of his other hand, busy on the front panel of the box he wore.
As his heart quieted he began to think more coherently.
The man from the spacer camp was using the stream as his road.
His unsteady foot advancing for another step came down on a slippery surface, and he fell forward as his legs were engulfed in the trap burrow of a strong jaws.
That man would come, Rynch was sure of that, but he was too spent to struggle on.
Rynch's fingers balled into fists.
Only this one did not have the self color of the foliage to disguise it.
The dark shadow of an arm flapped, the radiance swirled, broke again into pinpoint sparks.
A fire burned in their midst and men were moving about it.
And was waiting-for what?
Deep mold under the trees here would hold tracks.
Though it was balled in upon itself he was sure the creature was fully as large as he, and the menacing claws suggested it was a formidable opponent.
To open his eyes to this blue green pocket instead of to four dirty walls, was wrong.
Rynch went to cover under a bush.
The box on his chest caught on a stone he had dragged to him in a desperate try for support.
That fingering stopped, then Rynch's head came up as he heard a very faint sound.
No, the answer to every part of the puzzle lay with that man.
Then he noted that the outline of the other's body was visible, growing brighter by the moment.
That idea made sense.
His journey through those heights was awkward and he sweated and cringed when he disturbed vocal treetop dwellers.
Or were those traces left to guide another party from the camp?
Now he was facing that survivor's camp.
But not far from the small ship he had discovered something more-a campsite with a shelter fashioned out of spalls and vines, containing possessions a castaway might have accumulated.
The watchers!
Rynch shivered, dug his nails into the wood on which he lay.
He padded after the other.
Then the marks on the ground at the point from which he had fallen and the L B were here, just as he remembered.
One of the men trailed him, but as they reached a post planted a little beyond the bubble tents he stopped, allowed the explorer to advance alone into the dark.
In spite of his caution Rynch was close to betrayal as he edged around a clump of vegetation growing half in, half out of the stream.
And the feline was attacking an enemy, enraged to the pitch of vocal frenzy.
Waiting for him?
Only a timely rustle told him that the other had sat down on a drift log.
Still facing that featureless blob in the tree, the man retreated, alert for the first sign of advance on the part of the creature above. None came, and he dared to slip around the bole of the tree under which he stood, listening intently for any corresponding movement overhead.
There was plenty of time to stop the man before he reached the danger which might lurk under the trees.
Alert as he was, he lost sight of the stranger who melted into the dusky cover of the shadows.
Thankfully Rynch found his own lurking place from which he could keep the other in sight.
Had they somehow learned of his own presence nearby, were they out to find him?
The man eyed him steadily, and his expression did not alter even when Rynch swung the off world weapon to center its sights on the late owner.
Not a beast's cry-or was it?
The box struck one of the dead water cats, flashed as fur and flesh were singed.
And in the meantime he would let the other past him, follow along behind until he was far enough from the camp so that his friends could not interfere-then, they would have a meeting!
Rynch went flat on the stream bank, made a worm's progress up the slope to crouch behind a bush and survey the land immediately ahead. There stood an off world spacer, fins down, nose skyward, and grouped not too far from its landing ramp, a collection of bubble tents.
He found the other's track, not turning back as he had half feared, cleanly printed on level spots of wet earth-eastward now. What was the purpose of the other's expedition?
Clumps of small trees and high growing bushes dotted that expanse, an ideal cover.
Rynch ran a zigzag course from one clump of bush to the next.
As time passed the beasts closed about the clearing of the camp. Afternoon was fading into evening when he reached a point several miles downstream near the river.
Remembering, he started up and slunk down the slope, angry at his failure.
"Suppose," Rynch's voice was rusty sounding in his own ears, "we talk now."
The man from the spacer camp had been the focus of a three prong attack from a female and her cubs.
The man nodded.
Moisture from the night's rain hung on the tree leaves, clung in globules to Rynch's sweating body.
The light points gathered, hung in a small luminous cloud over the rocks.
He huddled against the bole of a tree when he made out the curve of a round bulk holding tight to the tree trunk aloft.
Did he guess that Rynch lurked behind, was now leading him on for some purpose of his own?
After his first startled cry he had made no sound, but now, as he sighted Rynch, his eyes widened and his lips parted.
The trapped prisoner had shied halfway around, stretching out his arms to find a firmer grip on some rock large and heavy enough to anchor him.
With a startled cry the man dropped the needler again, clawed at the ground about him.
Three red bodies were flat and still on the gravel as the off worlder leaned back against a rock breathing heavily.
That other would know, and would tell him the truth!
Grotesque, alien and terrifying, it made no hostile move.
By their gestures the others were arguing with him, but he shook his head, came on, to be a shadow stalking among other shadows.
Was the other sending a message by that means?
To advance openly up the stream bed was to invite discovery.
The man he sought stood by the fire, shrugging his arms into a webbing harness which brought a box against his chest.
Now he tried to reason why he had run.
They were his own kind, they would take him out of the loneliness of a world heretofore empty of his species.
"As you wish, Brodie."
However the other was as wary of that dark as if he suspected what might lie in wait there.
When it made no move to follow him Rynch began to hope it had only been defending its own hiding place, for its present attitude suggested concealment.
Rynch watched him check the webbing, count the equipment at his belt, settle the needler in the crook of his arm. Then the stranger left the stream, headed towards the woods.
The man from the spacer had made no effort to conceal his trail, in fact it would almost seem that he had deliberately gone out of his way to leave boot prints on favorable stretches of ground.
Was the other out to spy on them?
He eyed the spread of limbs on a neighbor tree.
To go back to the ship clearing was to risk capture-but he had to know. Rynch looked with more attention at his present surroundings.
Now that he was free from the wood and its watchers and had come so near to his goal, Rynch was curiously reluctant to do the sensible thing, to rise out of concealment and walk up to that fire, to claim rescue by his own kind.
But he had not lost his head and was jerking from side to side in an effort to pull free.
Again those fingers moved on the panel.
But Rynch had prudently withdrawn under a bush, and the scent of its aromatic leaves must have discouraged the sparks, for no such crown came to his sentry post.
There might just be another way to move.
He lay on a wide branch trying to control the heavy panting which supplied his laboring lungs.
Rynch surveyed the nearer bank.
He was also to discover that close to the site of the L B crash others waited.
Rynch froze, so startled that he could not think clearly for a second.
That sound of snarling, spitting hate ended in mid cry as Rynch crawled to the river bank.
But that tall man-the one who had led the party into the irregular clearing about the life boat-
Rynch jumped to his feet, a cry of warning shaping, but not to be uttered.
The nose was a black, perfectly rounded tube jutting an inch or so beyond the cheek surface.
Having made that fast he picked up a needler by its sling.
Now he could see they drifted about the vegetation, about the log where the man sat, about rocks and reeds.
He withdrew farther into the wood, intent upon finding a detour which would bring him out into the open lands.
I beg to be allowed to get out!"
"Entirely," replied the captain.
"And you conclude, then, you everlasting talker?" asked Barbicane.
"We have now to decide how we can best place ourselves to resist the shock. Position cannot be an indifferent matter; and we must, as much as possible, prevent the rush of blood to the head."
"And how?" asked Barbicane.
"Twenty seconds more!" Barbicane quickly put out the gas and lay down by his companions, and the profound silence was only broken by the ticking of the chronometer marking the seconds.
Nicholl, once introduced with his companions inside the projectile, began to close the opening by means of a strong plate, held in position by powerful screws.
We might well ask ourselves of what materials are the hearts of these Americans made, to whom the approach of the most frightful danger added no pulsation.
"He hopes!--He is not sure!-- and he waits for the moment when we are encased to make this deplorable admission!
The gas caught fire, and thus lighted the projectile looked like a comfortable room with thickly padded walls, furnished with a circular divan, and a roof rounded in the shape of a dome.
"Michel," said Barbicane, "during the passage we shall have plenty of time to investigate the most difficult questions. For the present we must occupy ourselves with our departure."
"It is a prison," said he, "but a traveling prison; and, with the right of putting my nose to the window, I could well stand a lease of a hundred years.
"Do you approve of my idea, Nicholl?" asked Barbicane.
They were like two methodical travelers in a car, seeking to place themselves as comfortably as possible.
Well, before another quarter of an hour you will have to count nine thousand dollars to the president; four thousand because the Columbiad will not burst, and five thousand because the projectile will rise more than six miles in the air."
"Just so," said Nicholl.
The gravest questions of morals and politics may be discussed, and even solved. Twenty six minutes well employed are worth more than twenty six years in which nothing is done.
But his companions were not listening; they were taking up their last positions with the most perfect coolness.
"My stake is deposited at the bank in Baltimore," replied Barbicane simply; "and if Nicholl is not there, it will go to his heirs."
We are bound to make the best of our new lodgings, and make ourselves comfortable.
Three thick and solidly made couches had been placed in the projectile.
TWENTY MINUTES PAST TEN TO FORTY SEVEN MINUTES PAST TEN p m
Other plates, closely fitted, covered the lenticular glasses, and the travelers, hermetically enclosed in their metal prison, were plunged in profound darkness.
You smile, Barbicane.
So saying, the thoughtless fellow lit a match by striking it on the sole of his boot; and approached the burner fixed to the receptacle, in which the carbonized hydrogen, stored at high pressure, sufficed for the lighting and warming of the projectile for a hundred and forty four hours, or six days and six nights.
At forty seven minutes past ten Murchison will launch the electric spark on the wire which communicates with the charge of the Columbiad. At that precise moment we shall leave our spheroid.
"Come, Nicholl.
"Forty seven minutes past ten!" murmured the captain.
"Twenty," said Nicholl.
Suddenly a dreadful shock was felt, and the projectile, under the force of six billions of litres of gas, developed by the combustion of pyroxyle, mounted into space.
"It is understood, captain.
"A hundred dollars we shall find none!" said Nicholl.
"Ah, Diana!
"Doubtless; but there are still some precautions to be taken, to deaden as much as possible the first shock."
"No," said Barbicane, "let us stretch ourselves on our sides; we shall resist the shock better that way.
There, an opening made for the purpose gave them access to the aluminum car.
Thus we still have twenty seven minutes to remain on the earth."
"Thirty seven minutes six seconds past ten."
Ah, Satellite!" he exclaimed, teasing them; "so you are going to show the moon dogs the good habits of the dogs of the earth!
Barbicane consulted it.
"And now, my dear companions," said Michel Ardan, "let us make ourselves at home; I am a domesticated man and strong in housekeeping.
"Forty two minutes past ten!" said Nicholl.
"I only ask to be allowed to pay."
Nicholl's chronometer marked twenty minutes past ten p m when the three travelers were finally enclosed in their projectile. This chronometer was set within the tenth of a second by that of Murchison the engineer.
"Yes," replied Nicholl.
"Well, twenty four, if you like, my noble captain," said Ardan; "twenty four minutes in which to investigate----"
While Michel Ardan was speaking, Barbicane and Nicholl were making their last preparations.
And first let us try and see a little.
The tackle belonging to the crane being hauled from outside, the mouth of the Columbiad was instantly disencumbered of its last supports.
During this time, Ardan, not being able to keep still, turned in his narrow prison like a wild beast in a cage, chatting with his friends, speaking to the dogs Diana and Satellite, to whom, as may be seen, he had given significant names.
For some moments the three travelers looked at each other. Then they began to examine the objects imprisoned with them.
"We've still thirteen minutes and a half."
Nicholl and Barbicane placed them in the center of the disc forming the floor.
"And why?" asked Nicholl.
That will do honor to the canine race!
"There are," said Michel Ardan, "just as there are horses, cows, donkeys, and chickens.
Remember that, when the projectile starts, it matters little whether we are in it or before it; it amounts to much the same thing."
I see that you are a man of method, which I could never be; but indeed you have made a series of bets of very little advantage to yourself, allow me to tell you."
"Yes, five little minutes!" replied Michel Ardan; "and we are enclosed in a projectile, at the bottom of a gun nine hundred feet long! And under this projectile are rammed four hundred thousand pounds of gun cotton, which is equal to one million six hundred thousand pounds of ordinary powder!
"I hope so, Michel," replied Barbicane gently, "but I am not sure."
A few instants alone separate us from an eventful moment.
"Have we not the water cushions placed between the partition breaks, whose elasticity will sufficiently protect us?"
I bet that we shall find chickens."
"Done, my captain!" replied Ardan, clasping Nicholl's hand. "But, by the bye, you have already lost three bets with our president, as the necessary funds for the enterprise have been found, as the operation of casting has been successful, and lastly, as the Columbiad has been loaded without accident, six thousand dollars."
"Well!" exclaimed Michel Ardan, in a good humored tone, "much may be done in twenty six minutes.
"Enough, Michel, enough!" said Barbicane, in a serious voice; "let us prepare.
"Twenty four only," said Nicholl.
"That Nicholl is not a man," exclaimed Michel; "he is a chronometer with seconds, an escape, and eight holes."
"Because, if you gain the first, the Columbiad will have burst, and the projectile with it; and Barbicane will no longer be there to reimburse your dollars."
There the three travelers were to stretch themselves some moments before their departure.
And friend Murchison, with his chronometer in hand, his eye fixed on the needle, his finger on the electric apparatus, is counting the seconds preparatory to launching us into interplanetary space."
The ground is covered with the best moss work of the moist lands of the north, made up mostly of the various species of hypnum, with some liverworts, marchantia, jungermannia, etc, in broad sheets and bosses, where never a dust particle floated, and where all the flowers, fresh with mist and spray, are wetter than water lilies.
Still more striking are their queer camps on the edges of the fields or over on the river bank, with the firelight shining on their wild jolly faces.
Their clothing is full of rosin and never wears out.
It is situated on the main river, where it plunges over a sheer precipice, about two hundred and forty feet high, in leaving the level meadows of the ancient lake basin.
Seattle and Tacoma are at present far in the lead of all others in the race for supremacy, and these two are keen, active rivals, to all appearances well matched. Tacoma occupies near the head of the Sound a site of great natural beauty.
Orange lilies are plentiful, and handsome shining mats of the kinnikinic, sprinkled with bright scarlet berries.
It is a fine thing to see people in hot earnest about anything; therefore, however extravagant and high the brag ascending from Puget Sound, in most cases it is likely to appear pardonable and more.
The spirit of progress is in the air.
From the hotel at the ranch village the road to the fall leads down the right bank of the river through the magnificent maple woods I have mentioned elsewhere, and fine views of the fall may be had on that side, both from above and below.
The large brown species likes higher and opener ground.
The people, however, are in no wise discouraged, and ere long the loss will be gain, inasmuch as a better class of buildings, chiefly of brick, are being erected in place of the inflammable wooden ones, which, with comparatively few exceptions, were built of pitchy spruce.
The road leads through majestic woods with ferns ten feet high beneath some of the thickets, and across a gravelly plain deforested by fire many years ago.
In a general way it resembles the well-known Nevada Fall in Yosemite, having the same twisted appearance at the top and the free plunge in numberless comet shaped masses into a deep pool seventy five or eighty yards in diameter.
On the portions most easily cleared some three hundred acres of hop vines have been planted and are now in full bearing, yielding, it is said, at the rate of about a ton of hops to the acre.
He is a dangerous animal, a near relative of the famous grizzly, and wise hunters are very fond of letting him alone.
It is the terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad, and calls itself the "City of Destiny." Seattle is also charmingly located about twenty miles down the Sound from Tacoma, on Elliott Bay.
Others will take the train to the Franklin and Newcastle or Carbon River coal mines for the sake of the thirty or forty mile rides through the woods, and a look into the black depths of the underworld.
Many a tree have these old axemen felled, but, round shouldered and stooping, they too are beginning to lean over.
Among the most interesting of all the summer rest and pleasure places is the famous "Hop Ranch" on the upper Snoqualmie River, thirty or forty miles eastward from Seattle.
A very different man, seen now and then at long intervals but usually invisible, is the free roamer of the wilderness-hunter, prospector, explorer, seeking he knows not what.
Some of these rare, happy rovers die alone among the leaves.
They are already towns "with all modern improvements, first-class in every particular," as is said of hotels. They have electric motors and lights, paved broadways and boulevards, substantial business blocks, schools, churches, factories, and foundries.
Perhaps enough of hops might be raised in Washington for the wants of all the world, but it would be impossible to find pickers to handle the crop.
From a place called "Hunt's," at the end of the wagon road, a trail leads through lush, dripping woods (never dry) to Thuja and Mertens, Menzies, and Douglas spruces.
But woe to the ranch should fire water get there!
In these Washington wilds, living alone, all sorts of men may perchance be found-poets, philosophers, and even full blown transcendentalists, though you may go far to find them.
Others again take the steamers for Victoria, Fraser River, or Vancouver, the new ambitious town at the terminus of the Canadian Railroad, thus getting views of the outer world in a near foreign country.
It is now near to all the world and is in possession of a share of the best of all that civilization has to offer, while on some of the lines of advancement it is at the front.
The lusty, titanic clang of boiler making may be heard there, and plenty of the languid music of pianos mingling with the babel noises of commerce carried on in a hundred tongues.
The towns of Puget Sound are of a very lively, progressive, and aspiring kind, fortunately with abundance of substance about them to warrant their ambition and make them grow.
About a thousand Indians are required as pickers at the Snoqualmie ranch alone, and a lively and merry picture they make in the field, arrayed in bright, showy calicoes, lowering the rustling vine pillars with incessant song singing and fun.
The main streets are crowded with bright, wide awake lawyers, ministers, merchants, agents for everything under the sun; ox drivers and loggers in stiff, gummy overalls; back slanting dudes, well tailored and shiny; and fashions and bonnets of every feather and color bloom gayly in the noisy throng and advertise London and Paris.
Their faces are doubtful in color, neither sickly nor quite healthy looking, and seamed with deep wrinkles like the bark of the spruces, but with no trace of anxiety.
Green River is a small rocky stream with picturesque banks, and derives its name from the beautiful pale green hue of its waters.
Lithe and sinewy, he walks erect, making his way with the skill of wild animals, all his senses in action, watchful and alert, looking keenly at everything in sight, his imagination well nourished in the wealth of the wilderness, coming into contact with free nature in a thousand forms, drinking at the fountains of things, responsive to wild influences, as trees to the winds.
Many are killed every year, both for their flesh and skins.
It is the terminus of the Seattle, Lake Shore, and Eastern Railroad, now in process of construction, and calls itself the "Queen City of the Sound" and the "Metropolis of Washington." What the populations of these towns number I am not able to say with anything like exactness.
To many, especially in the Atlantic States, Washington is hardly known at all.
The elk and perhaps also the moose still exist in the most remote and inaccessible solitudes of the forest, but their numbers have been greatly reduced of late, and even the most experienced hunters have difficulty in finding them.
Their edges run back for miles into the woods among the trees and stumps and brush which hide a good many of the houses and the stakes which mark the lots; so that, without being as yet very large towns, they seem to fade away into the distance.
It is regarded as being yet a far wild west-a dim, nebulous expanse of woods-by those who do not know that railroads and steamers have brought the country out of the wilderness and abolished the old distances.
Many of their companions are already beneath the moss, and among those that we see at work some are now dead at the top (bald), leafless, so to speak, and tottering to their fall.
With their own scenery so glorious ever on show, one would at first thought suppose that these happy Puget Sound people would never go sightseeing from home like less favored mortals.
The squirrel is everywhere, and the goat you can hardly fail to find if you climb any of the high mountains.
nineteen.
A little of everything in the woods is stuck fast to these loggers, and their trousers grow constantly thicker with age.
Then they too grow rich and spend their money on red cloth and trinkets.
Nor in your walks in the woods will you be likely to see many of the wild animals, however far you may go, with the exception of the Douglas squirrel and the mountain goat.
Hungry at times and weary, he has corresponding enjoyment in eating and resting, and all the wilderness is home.
The pool is of considerable depth, as is shown by the radiating well beaten foam and mist, which is of a beautiful rose color at times, of exquisite fineness of tone, and by the heavy waves that lash the rocks in front of it.
Like young sapling sequoias, they are sending out their roots far and near for nourishment, counting confidently on longevity and grandeur of stature.
Still it is hard to realize how much good work is being done here of a kind that makes for civilization-the enthusiastic, exulting energy displayed in the building of new towns, railroads, and mills, in the opening of mines of coal and iron and the development of natural resources in general.
To me it seemed a cordial outpouring of Nature's love; but it is easy to differ with salt Latter Days in everything-storms, wives, politics, and religion.
Other experiences seemed but to have prepared me for this, as souls are prepared for heaven.
With reference to the development of fertile storms bearing snow and rain, the greater portion of the calendar springtime of Utah has been winter.
City Creek, coming from its high glacial fountains, enters the streets of this Mormon Zion pure as an angel, but how does it leave it?
The mountains, in particular, with the forests on their flanks, their mazy lacelike canyons, the wombs of the ancient glaciers, and their marvelous profusion of ornate sculpture, were most impressively manifest.
At four thirty p m a dark brownish cloud appeared close down on the plain towards the lake, extending from the northern extremity of the Oquirrh Range in a northeasterly direction as far as the eye could reach.
Earth and sky, round and round the entire landscape, was one ravishing revelation of color, infinitely varied and interblended.
Toward the evening of the eighteenth it began to wither.
I felt as if new arrived in some other far off world.
I have seen many a glorious sunset beneath lifting storm clouds on the mountains, but nothing comparable with this.
They are covered with common sunshine.
Down here on the banks of the Jordan, larks and redwings are swinging on the rushes; the balmy air is instinct with immortal life; the wild flowers, the grass, and the farmers' grain are fresh as if, like the snow, they had come out of heaven, and the last of the angel clouds are fleeing from the mountains.
Nevertheless, distant objects along the boundaries of the landscape were revealed with wonderful distinctness in this weird, subdued, cloud sifted light.
Then came darkness, and the glorious day was done.
Notwithstanding the vaunted refining influences of towns, purity of all kinds-pure hearts, pure streams, pure snow-must here be exposed to terrible trials.
Surely nothing in heaven, nor any mansion of the Lord in all his worlds, could be more gloriously carpeted.
I should like to see how mr Young, the Lake Prophet, would meet such messengers.
The disbanding clouds lingered lovingly about the mountains, filling the canyons like tinted wool, rising and drooping around the topmost peaks, fondling their rugged bases, or, sailing alongside, trailed their lustrous fringes through the pines as if taking a last view of their accomplished work.
Of these partial storms there were soon ten or twelve, arranged in two rows, while the main Jordan Valley between them lay as yet in profound calm.
But to return to the storm.
The mountains, the plains, the sky, all seemed new.
Scarcely was it in plain sight ere it was upon us, racing across the Jordan, over the city, and up the slopes of the Wahsatch, eclipsing all the landscapes in its course-the bending trees, the dust streamers, and the wild onrush of everything movable giving it an appreciable visibility that rendered it grand and inspiring.
The snowy skirts of the Wahsatch Mountains appeared beneath the lifting fringes of the clouds, and the sun shone out through colored windows, producing one of the most glorious after storm effects I ever witnessed.
I hardly know how the little bells I have been describing would be regarded by seekers of this class, but every true flower lover who comes to consider these Utah lilies will surely be well rewarded, however long the way.
Occasionally a specimen is met which has from two to five flowers hung in a loose panicle.
But down in the San Pitch Valley at Gunnison, I discovered a genuine lily, happily named Lily Young.
During the famine years between eighteen fifty three and eighteen fifty eight, great destitution prevailed, especially in the southern settlements, on account of drouth and grasshoppers, and throughout one hungry winter in particular, thousands of the people subsisted chiefly on the bulbs of the tulips, called "sego" by the Indians, who taught them its use.
They have seen too much hard, repressive toil to admit of the development of lily beauty either in form or color.
Pushing on up the rugged slopes, I found many delightful seclusions-moist nooks at the foot of cliffs, and lilies in every one of them, not growing close together like daisies, but well apart, with plenty of room for their bells to swing free and ring.
Lilies are rare in Utah; so also are their companions the ferns and orchids, chiefly on account of the fiery saltness of the soil and climate.
It seems to be quite abundant on many of the eastern mountains of the basin, and forms a marked feature of their upper forests.
They were growing in a small, nestlike opening between the rock and the bushes, and both the erythronium and the fritillaria were in full flower.
The shorelines, marked by a ribbon of white sand, were seen sweeping around many a bay and promontory in elegant curves, and picturesque islands rising to mountain heights, and some of them capped with pearly cumuli.
I wanted in particular to learn what the Oquirrh rocks were made of, what trees composed the curious patches of forest; and, perhaps more than all, I was animated by a mountaineer's eagerness to get my feet into the snow once more, and my head into the clear sky, after lying dormant all winter at the level of the sea.
And the wide prairie of water glowing in the gold and purple of evening presented all the colors that tint the lips of shells and the petals of lilies-the most beautiful lake this side of the Rocky Mountains.
Looking southward from the south end of Salt Lake, the two northmost peaks of the Oquirrh Range are seen swelling calmly into the cool sky without any marked character, excepting only their snow crowns, and a few weedy looking patches of spruce and fir, the simplicity of their slopes preventing their real loftiness from being appreciated.
If the neighboring mountains are as rich in lilies, then this may well be called the Lily Range.
They extend horizontally in opposite directions, and form a beautiful glossy ground, over which the one large down looking flower is swung from a simple stem, the petals being strongly recurved, like those of Lilium superbum.
I will bathe in the high sky, among cool wind waves from the snow." From the more southerly of the two peaks a long ridge comes down, bent like a bow, one end in the hot plains, the other in the snow of the summit.
I reached the hotel on the lake about dusk with all my fresh riches, and my first mountain ramble in Utah was accomplished.
They are fruit rather than flower-good brown bread.
In general they are thickset, with large feet and hands, and with sun browned faces, often curiously freckled like the petals of Fritillaria atropurpurea.
Not even in the cool, fresh glens of the mountains will you find these favorite flowers, though some of these desert ranges almost rival the Sierra in height. Nevertheless, in the building and planting of this grand Territory the lilies were not forgotten.
In the planting of her wild gardens, Nature takes the feet and teeth of her flocks into account, and makes use of them to trim and cultivate, and keep them in order, as the bark and buds of the tree are tended by woodpeckers and linnets.
After climbing about a thousand feet above the plain I came to a picturesque mass of rock, cropping up through the underbrush on one of the steepest slopes of the mountain.
She considered the lilies, and, while planting the plains with sage and the hills with cedar, she has covered at least one mountain with golden erythroniums and fritillarias as its crowning glory, as if willing to show what she could do in the lily line even here.
Here I feel uneasy about the name of this lily, for the compositors have a perverse trick of making me say all kinds of absurd things wholly unwarranted by plain copy, and I fear that the "Lily of San Pitch" will appear in print as the widow of Sam Patch.
These were the first of the species I had seen, and I need not try to tell the joy they made.
One of these lilies, the calochortus, several species of which are well known in California as the "Mariposa tulips," has received great consideration at the hands of the Mormons, for to it hundreds of them owe their lives.
After carefully scanning the jagged towers and battlements with which it is roughened, I determined to make it my way, though it presented but a feeble advertisement of its floral wealth. This apparent barrenness, however, made no great objection just then, for I was scarce hoping for flowers, old or new, or even for fine scenery.
People oftentimes travel far to see curious plants like the carnivorous darlingtonia, the fly catcher, the walking fern, etc
In winter only the bulbs are alive, sleeping deep beneath the ground, like field mice in their nests; then the snow flowers fall above them, lilies over lilies, until the spring winds blow, and these winter lilies wither in turn; then the hiding erythroniums and fritillarias rise again, responsive to the first touches of the sun
While standing at their feet, the other day, shortly after my memorable excursion among the salt waves of the lake, I said: "Now I shall have another baptism.
I noticed the tracks of deer in many places among the lily gardens, and at the height of about seven thousand feet I came upon the fresh trail of a flock of wild sheep, showing that these fine mountaineers still flourish here above the range of Mormon rifles.
Descending the mountain, I followed the windings of the main central glen on the north, gathering specimens of the cones and sprays of the evergreens, and most of the other new plants I had met; but the lilies formed the crowning glory of my bouquet-the grandest I had carried in many a day.
You may walk the deserts of the Great Basin in the bloom time of the year, all the way across from the snowy Sierra to the snowy Wahsatch, and your eyes will be filled with many a gay malva, and poppy, and abronia, and cactus, but you may not see a single true lily, and only a very few liliaceous plants of any kind.
Two liliaceous plants in particular, Erythronium grandiflorum and Fritillaria pudica, are marvelously beautiful and abundant.
This said, she went to the palace, and soon returned with a purse containing a thousand pieces of gold, which she delivered to the syndic, desiring him to buy apparel for the mother and daughter. The syndic, who was a man of a good taste, chose such as were very handsome, and had them made up with all expedition.
The caliph was highly pleased with Ganem's reply, and assigned him a considerable pension.
Matters being so ordered, the syndic announced Fetnah's coming to the sick man, who was so transported to see her, that he was again near fainting away, "Well, Ganem," said she, drawing near to his bed, "you have again found your Fetnah, whom you thought you had lost for ever." "Ah! madam," exclaimed he, eagerly interrupting her, "what miracle has restored you to my sight?
The caliph was not displeased with Fetnah for the freedom of these words; "But may I," said he, "rely on the assurance you give me of Ganem's virtue?" "Yes," replied Fetnah, "you may.
He could say no more; such a sudden transport of joy seized him that he fainted away. Fetnah and the syndic did all they could to bring him to himself; but as soon as they perceived he began to revive, the syndic desired the lady to withdraw, lest the sight of her should heighten his disorder.
What melancholy return have you received for your care and respect?
Alas! it is I that have made you wretched! why did you not let me perish miserably, rather than afford me your generous relief?
I went further yet: you know the tyranny of love: I felt some tender inclination rising in my breast.
Fetnah would have proceeded, but the syndic of the jewellers coming in interrupted her: "Madam," said he to her, "I come from seeing a very moving object, it is a young man, whom a camel driver had just carried to an hospital: he was bound with cords on a camel, because he had not strength enough to sit.
The mother and daughter were mounted on mules belonging to the palace, and whilst Fetnah on another mule led them by a bye way to the prince's court, Jaaffier conducted Ganem, and brought him into the hall of audience.
Not questioning but that Fetnah was in waiting, with Abou Ayoub's widow and daughter, he caused them to be called in.
Thence, notwithstanding all they had endured, they proceeded to Bagdad.
It was afterwards laid up in his library, and many copies being transcribed, it became public.
He perceived it; but far from availing himself of my frailty, and notwithstanding the flame which consumed him, he still remained steady in his duty, and all that his passion could force from him were the words I have already repeated to your majesty, That which belongs to the master is forbidden to the slave.'"
Ganem," added she, "it is not you that I address!
I take you to wife; and by that means shall punish Zobeide, who shall become the first cause of your good fortune, as she was of your past sufferings.
"Yes, my dear Ganem," answered Fetnah, "I have cleared myself before the commander of the true believers, who, to make amends for the wrong he has done you, bestows me on you for a wife." These last words occasioned such an excess of joy in Ganem, that he knew not for a while how to express himself, otherwise than by that passionate silence so well known to lovers.
Ganem's face was bathed with them, as well as his mother's and sisters; and Fetnah let fall abundance.
Fetnah concluded, that he had not been able to survive the pain of losing her.
You are no longer his enemies.
The young man having recovered, looked all around, and not seeing what he sought, exclaimed, "What is become of you, charming Fetnah?
Through all the rags that covered them, notwithstanding the impression the sun has made on their faces, I discovered a noble air, not to be commonly found in those people I relieve.
Was there any need of staying a whole month after my return, before you sent me word where you were?" "Commander of the true believers," answered Fetnah, "Ganem went abroad so very seldom, that you need not wonder we were not the first that heard of your return.
Fetnah then said, "Let us bless Heaven for having brought us all together.
I thought you were in the caliph's palace; he has doubtless listened to you.
You have dispelled his jealousy, and he has restored you to his favour."
He then descended from his throne, and causing only Ganem and the grand vizier, follow him, retired into his own apartment.
They prostrated themselves before him: he made them rise; and was so charmed by Jalib al Koolloob's beauty, that, after viewing her very attentively, he said, "I am so sorry for having treated your charms so unworthily, that I owe them such a satisfaction as may surpass the injury I have done.
The son of Abou Ayoub, however indisposed, would know the voice of Fetnah." At the name of Fetnah, Ganem (for it was really he) opened his eyes, sprang up, and knowing the caliph's favourite; "Ah! madam," said he, "by what miracle"
This said, she embraced the mother and the daughter, and went away.
The caliph's favourite having dried up hers, said to Ganem's mother, "Be so kind as to tell us your misfortunes, and recount your story.
I carried them both to my house, and delivered them to my wife, who was of the same opinion with me. She caused her slaves to provide them good beds, whilst she herself led them to our warm bath, and gave them clean linen.
Speak freely, you know the natural goodness of my disposition, and that I love to do justice."
Fetnah also told them all the uneasiness of her imprisonment, how the caliph, having heard her talk in the tower, had sent for her into his closet, and how she had cleared herself.
She spend the whole day and the thousand pieces of gold in giving alms at the mosques, and returned to the palace in the evening.
They were at the door waiting for that moment.
"Fetnah," said the caliph, without bidding her rise, "I think you charge me with violence and injustice.
He told them, that having taken refuge in a small village, he there fell sick; that some charitable peasants had taken care of him, but finding he did not recover, a camel driver had undertaken to carry him to the hospital at Bagdad.
It was abnormally cold even for the late fall.
"Those men?" Bobby asked wearily.
He appeared, moreover, to have slept pleasantly.
But, as always, thought brought no release.
"How can I forget it?
Like everything about the Cedars, Silas Blackburn had delivered it to the swift, obliterating fingers of time.
Thanks."
"Bygones are bygones.
Doctor Groom stood at the foot of the stairs, talking with the clergyman, a stout and unctuous figure.
"Why?" Bobby asked.
"I suppose not," Robinson sneered, "since everybody knows well enough what's in it."
Robinson entered.
Don't make any mistake about that.
The district attorney appeared as much at sea as the others.
I gather not."
"Splendid coffee!
Could you ask more?"
"I saw you arrive," he said.
The underbrush had long interposed a veil between him and the Cedars above whose roofs smoke wreathed in the still air like fantastic figures weaving a shroud to lower over the time stained, melancholy walls.
But almost immediately even that prophylactic was denied him.
"If it had been stolen earlier the coat pocket might have retained its bulging shape.
"I was coming to hunt you up, Bobby.
I telephoned as soon as Rawlins got me to the Bastille.
"What are you driving at?"
He planned it with some local fellow.
"Deep enough!"
You don't mind, Bobby?"
From his thickly bearded face his reddish eyes gleamed forth with a fresh instability.
Graham summoned Katherine.
He fixed a pretty stiff bail, but the local lawyer was there with a bondsman, and I came back.
I thought you were-"
Therefore, he would crush his justifiable anger.
I won't believe it.
"He learned nothing new last night?"
Clearly he had slept little.
He had walked some distance.
I must think it over."
"I don't dare!" He echoed Graham's words. "There's nothing else any one can say.
Reluctantly Bobby's glance went to the centre of the floor where the casket rested on trestles.
"I've been asking myself since he came back," Graham answered, "if there's any queer power behind his quiet manner.
His eyes still smiled, but his voice was harder:
"I've been watching the preparations out there.
He was glad to see Graham leave the court and hurry toward him.
He settles himself in the Cedars again."
A strange man appeared, walking from the direction of the house.
Bobby didn't care to meet the uncommunicative eyes whose depths he had never been able to explore.
Nothing to forgive, Bobby.
"No, no," Bobby said hotly.
"no
I asked Rawlins to drive me back, but he rushed from the courthouse, probably to telephone his rotund superior.
For some time Bobby stared through the window at the desolate, ragged landscape.
"When your grandfather's buried," Graham answered softly, "we'll all feel happier."
"Doctor Groom?"
He surveyed the remains of Bobby's breakfast.
It would, doubtless, be more difficult to endure than Howells's experiment over Silas Blackburn's body in the old room.
As he walked back he forecasted with a keen apprehension his approaching ordeal.
Then he became aware of twigs hastily lopped off, of bushes bent and torn, of the uncovering, through these careless means, of an old path.
For him yesterday's incident was not so lightly to be passed over.
He raised himself on his elbow and glanced from the window.
Was there a special power there that could control the destinies of other people, that might make men walk unconsciously to accomplish the ends of an unscrupulous brain?
Otherwise the nature of their industry and its surroundings had imposed upon them a silence, in itself beast like and unnatural.
If you think I'm guilty say so.
"Where's Robinson?" Bobby asked.
Graham moved closer.
"Good morning.
Before either man could grope for a suitable greeting he faced Bobby.
His laugh was short and embarrassed.
Dull clouds obscured the sun and furnished an illusion of crowding earthward.
But I want it quickly.
So has Doctor Groom.
Robinson stood opposite, but he didn't look at Silas Blackburn who could no longer accuse.
Do you know it's after ten o'clock?"
"Later, mr Graham.
A lingering resentment at Graham's suggestion lessened the difficulty of his position.
I'm glad you're out of it.
The iron bed; the chest of drawers, scratched and with broken handles; the closed colonial desk; the miserly rag carpet-all seemed mutely asking, as Bobby did, why their owner had deserted them the other night and delivered himself to the ghostly mystery of the old bedroom.
"Yes," Bobby said, "even if it does for me.
"Isn't that an automobile coming through the woods?" he asked.
Graham, on the other hand, was ill at ease.
There were more dark clothed men in the hall.
You want the truth, don't you?"
"You've no objection to the gentleman visiting you for the present?"
I must decide what to do.
He would make it practically impossible for Bobby to refuse his hospitality.
The car stopped at the entrance of the court.
That fleeting, satanic impression of yesterday came back, sharper, more alarming.
This necessary task on which Bobby had stumbled had made the thicket less congenial than the house.
What was the man's game?
"He ignores what happened yesterday.
The minister's telephoned Katherine.
You will forgive us, Carlos?"
"How did you get away?"
As far as possible you must."
"Get up," Graham advised.
"And why do you fill my mind with such thoughts?
For Groom has brought the ghosts back with him.
Bobby tried to account for Paredes's friendly manner.
"I won't blame Carlos for that," Bobby muttered.
Had his exclamation been drawn by an accuser?
"Any one who cares to go-"
Simple enough, mr Graham.
He turned.
"You'll be at the grave-as chief mourner?"
He smoked with a vast contentment.
Let us call it a misunderstanding."
"I don't know what to think of it," Bobby answered.
Bobby glanced at him, flushing.
Bobby looked up.
"Since the law won't hold me at your convenience in Smithtown I keep myself at your service here-if Bobby permits it.
"It won't lessen the fact of his murder."
Graham interrupted with a flat demand for an explanation.
It's a nasty thought, but I've heard of such things."
The words came, nevertheless, with some difficulty:
"Fact is, Bobby, I left New York too suddenly.
Bobby agreed indifferently.
"The manager took my advice, but Maria's still missing.
The labour of the men was given an uncouth rhythm by their grunting expulsions of breath.
One of the black clothed men opened the door of Silas Blackburn's room.
After this something must be done about Paredes's detention.
And I tell you I did feel Howells's body move under my hand."
He stepped aside, beckoning.
His black clothing, relieved only by narrow edges of white cuffs between the sleeves and the heavy mourning gloves, fitted with solemn harmony into the landscape and Bobby's mood.
He lay there still shivering, beneath the heavy blankets.
You were excited and imaginative when you went to the old room to take the evidence.
I won't think of it."
His reserve and easy daring mastered them all; and always, as now, he laughed at the futility of their efforts to sound his purposes, to limit his freedom of action.
I can't go on this way indefinitely."
But more important than the knowledge Graham desired, loomed the old question.
"If it's so far fetched," Graham asked quietly, "why do you revolt from the idea?"
Yet that flash of temper had given him courage to face the ordeal.
"He shouldn't be in jail," Bobby persisted.
He will be here before noon.
Only one theory promised to fit at all.
Bobby walked from the room.
You'll confess, Bobby, he's had a good deal of influence over you-an influence for evil?"
"Don't," Graham said.
Its brevity pointed the previous dumbness of the speaker:
"Time," Graham said, "lessens such facts-even for the police."
He put on his coat and hat and left the house.
Her pictures are in most of the papers.
I've been weak, Hartley, but not that weak.
Entering the court, he scarcely glanced at the black wagon.
They heard the remote tinkling of the front door bell.
I've nearly frozen driving from Smithtown."
Your presence in the private staircase was the last straw.
"We scarcely expected you back."
There is a hack driver outside who is even more suspicious than you.
Bobby turned on him.
He suggests resources as hard to understand as anything that has happened in the old room.
Jenkins passed through.
The cold air invading the hall and the dining room told them he had opened the door. His sharp exclamation recalled Howells's report which, at their direction, he had failed to mail.
He could see where the men had had to tear bushes from among the graves in order to insert their tools.
Could he witness the definite imprisonment of his grandfather in a narrow box; could he watch the covering earth fall noisily in that bleak place of silence without displaying for Robinson the guilt that impressed him more and more?
Graham made it plain that his mind was far from the sad business ahead.
"You're trying to take away my one hope. But I was there, and you weren't.
Graham smiled.
The Panamanian had changed his clothing.
"That's better.
They walked slowly back to the house.
He saw that the district attorney realized that, too, for he sprang from his chair, and, followed by Rawlins, started upward. The entire company crowded the stairs.
That moment in the hall when Graham had awakened him urged Bobby to reply with a genuine warmth:
The minister's arrived.
He wants to be paid.
"Maria did her share," Bobby said.
Graham moved toward the door.
He glanced away while the angry colour left his face.
It was necessary for the Panamanian to return to the Cedars.
He broke off, looking at Graham.
"You mean Carlos may have made me go to the hall last night, perhaps sent me to the old room those other times?"
Bobby forced himself to walk up the staircase, facing the first phase of his ordeal.
Fact is, this fellow wants five dollars-an outrageous rate.
Everything's about ready."
His purpose, whatever it was, compelled him to remain for the present in the mournful, tragic house.
I saw nothing."
Two burly fellows in overalls, carrying pick and spade across their shoulders, pushed through the underbrush at the edge of the clearing.
"Gave me the creeps, too.
I slept like a top last night.
With his direction a matter of indifference, chance led him into the thicket at the side of the house.
"The grave diggers," Graham answered.
That's why I've come to wake you up.
"Since you wish it," Bobby said.
He paused, listening.
If it was hard to face sleep before, what do you think it is now?
He lounged opposite the district attorney, his eyes studying the fire.
Bobby started to rise.
Your cousin is upstairs." He included the company in his circling turn of the head.
It was a shock to have your candle go out. Your own hand, reaching out to Howells, might have moved spasmodically.
"This morning Carlos gave me the creeps."
He felt the touch of Graham's hand on his shoulder.
"A funereal day."
Eventually his curiosity conquered.
You should have tasted what I had this morning.
When Bobby had bathed and dressed he found, in spite of his mental turmoil, that his sleep had done him good.
My clothes are here.
Graham frowned.
He, too, was sombrely dressed, and, instead of the vivid necktie he had worn from the courthouse, a jet black scarf was perfectly arranged beneath his collar.
"We need not delay.
For once he was grateful to the forest because it had forbidden him to glance perpetually back at that dismal and pensive picture.
There was an ironical justice in the condition of the old cemetery.
Go tell Robinson so."
"I must consider every possibility.
"Don't misunderstand me," Graham said gently.
Now that another had expressed the idea Bobby fought it with all his might.
It merely insisted that the case against him was proved.
Paredes's arrival possessed one virtue: It diverted Bobby's thoughts temporarily from his own dilemma, from his inability to chart a course.
He put down his coffee cup and lighted a cigarette.
Graham, fully dressed, stood at the side of the bed.
Bobby sprang upright.
Lower preferred.
May be found in a cash book or the kangaroo gait.
No, they hadn't.
Here was a deepening of the mystery.
There was no longer any room for doubt.
He had ridden from the door of the Peacock at about a quarter to eight.
Doctor Scott, the local coroner, held himself in readiness to summon a coroner's jury at the shortest notice.
Of this there was no doubt whatever.
It was wet and besmirched with mud, and, in fact was lying half in and half out of a little puddle of water when it was found.
Squire Harrington was especially active, and left no stone unturned to unravel the mystery.
ONE HUNDRED POUNDS REWARD.
Every place, likely and unlikely, where a man's body might possibly lie concealed; every tract of bush and woodland; every barn and out building; every hollow and ditch; every field and fence corner, was explored with careful minuteness.
But in this they were disappointed.
Lapierre gave up all his time to the search, and left the Royal Oak to the care of its landlady.
All to no purpose.
The beautiful grounds are open every Thursday to visitors.
mr Childs died at three o one a m
That his employes, in a formal interview with him, expressed their willingness to accept the reduced rates, simply augments the generosity of his act." Strikes among laborers would be few and far between if employers were like George w Childs.
At fourteen he came to Philadelphia, poor, but with courage and a quick mind, and found a place to work in a bookstore.
He was ambitious, as who is not, that comes to prominence; and one day he made the resolution that he would sometime be the owner of this great paper and its building!
mr Childs has about fifty rare clocks in his various homes, one of these costing six thousand dollars.
He gave ten thousand dollars for a Centennial Exposition.
The album of mrs Childs contains the autographs of a great number of the leading men and women of the world.
At the end of these years he had saved a few hundred dollars, and opened a little store for himself in the Ledger Building, where the well-known newspaper, the "Public Ledger," was published.
He has been one of General Grant's most generous helpers; yet while doing for the great, he does not forget the unknown.
The wood work is carved ebony with gold, the bookshelves six feet high on every side, and the ceiling built in sunken panels, blue and gold.
Fortune, of course, had come, and fame.
GEORGE w CHILDS.
But after seeing the admirable provision made for his workmen, we must enter the private office of mr Childs.
Childs is a wonderful man.
He listens courteously to any requests, and then bids you make yourself at home in this elegant office, that certainly has no superior in the world, perhaps no rival.
"He refused to reduce the rate of payment of his compositors, notwithstanding that the Typographical Union had formerly sanctioned a reduction, and notwithstanding that the reduced scale was operative in every printing office in Philadelphia except his own.
mr Childs has had a most interesting history.
Dom Pedro of Brazil sent, in eighteen seventy six, a work on his empire, with his picture and his autograph.
With all this elegance, befitting royalty, mr Childs has been a constant and generous giver.
The farm adjoining is a delight to see.
Two hundred thousand copies of Peterson's "Familiar Science" were sold.
One could linger here for days, but we must see the lovely country seat called "Wootton," some distance out from the city.
It was made for Joseph Potts, who paid six hundred and forty dollars for it.
The yearly profits, it is stated, have been four hundred thousand dollars.
The Spanish Minister in seventeen seventy eight offered eight hundred for it, that he might present it to his sovereign.
He gives free excursions to poor children, a dinner annually to the newsboys, and aids hundreds who are in need of an education.
In three years, when he was twenty one, he had become the head of a publishing house,--Childs and Peterson.
Like man in the classification of animals, he forms a genus in himself.
The opportunity came in December, eighteen sixty four.
The house is in Queen Anne style, surrounded by velvety lawns, a wealth of evergreen and exquisite plants, brought over from South America and Africa.
Alas! how unhomelike and barren are some of the newspaper offices, where gifted men toil from morning till night, with little time for sleep, and still less for recreation.
Besides, he was never idle, he was economical, his habits were the best, and why should not such a boy succeed?
He bought the property, doubled the subscription rates, lowered the advertising, excluded everything questionable from the columns of his paper, made his editorials brief, yet comprehensive, until under his judicious management the journal reached the large circulation of ninety thousand daily.
For ten years he has given the "Ledger Almanac" to every subscriber, costing five thousand dollars annually.
He has proved to all other American boys that worth and honest dealing will win success, in a greater or less degree.
The room itself in the Queen Anne style, with exquisite wood carving, marble tiles, brass ornaments, and painted glass, is a gem.
mr Childs has come to eminence by energy, integrity, and true faith in himself.
Every portion is interesting.
Here he remained for four years, doing his work faithfully, and to the best of his ability.
This is indeed practical Christianity.
We choose one dainty with red birds, and carry it away as a pleasant remembrance of a princely giver, in a princely apartment.
He brought out Kane's "Arctic Expedition," from which the author, dr Kane, realized seventy thousand dollars.
All this has not been accomplished without thought and labor.
He was nearly sixty five years of age.
After a delightful hour spent in looking at these choice things, mr Childs bids us take our choice of some rare china cups and saucers.
On february eighth eighteen thirty six, this novel scheme for shutting off petitions against slavery immediately upon their presentation was referred to a select committee of which mr Pinckney was chairman.
But in a moment mr Glascock, of Georgia, moved that the petition be not received.
His position should be clearly understood; for in the vast labor which lay before the abolition party different tasks fell to different men.
There is no such man in the House."
The clerk, by direction of the Speaker, thereupon called his name.
The mere presentation of an odious petition may seem in itself to be a simple task; but to find himself in a constant state of antagonism to a powerful, active, and vindictive majority in a debating body, constituted of such material as then made up the House of Representatives, wore hardly even upon the iron temper and inflexible disposition of mr Adams.
At the next session of Congress they concluded to try to stop it, and their ingenious scheme was to make Congress shot proof, so to speak, against such missiles.
Such was the beginning of the famous "gag" which became and long remained-afterward in a worse shape-a standing rule of the House.
On may eighteenth this committee reported in substance: one.
That Congress had no power to interfere with slavery in any State; two.
But it is time to resume the narrative and to let mr Adams's acts-of which after all it is possible to give only the briefest sketch, selecting a few of the more striking incidents-tell the tale of his Congressional life.
They had assumed an untenable position.
The severe pressure against him begat only the more severe counter pressure upon his part.
The conservative, conscienceless respectability of wealth was, as is usually the case with it in the annals of the Anglo Saxon race, quite in the wrong and predestined to well merited defeat.
Leopold gave a sigh, and said no more.
And the snake said: "Why, then, did he not speak like that to my Leopold?
As she repassed him to go to the drawing room, she did indeed say a word of kindness; but it was in a forced tone, and was only about his dinner! His eyes over flowed, but he shut his lips so tight that his mouth grew grim with determination, and no more tears came.
Yet there was a human soul crying out after its birthright.
Helen expected him back to dinner, and was anxiously looking for him.
The groom took his horse in the street, and he came into the drawing room.
and hence, in proportion as he roused the honest, he gave occasion to the dishonest to cavil and condemn.
His eyes followed her as she walked across to the dressing room, and the tears rose and filled them, but he said nothing.
Who could once have imagined another reason for the laying of that round, good humoured, contented face down on the book board, than pure drowsiness from lack of work day interest!
"Oh, it's all right!--will be at least, I am sure.
"I am quite able."
The words jarred sorely on Helen's ear.
"Oh!
So said the snake, and by the time Helen had walked home with her aunt, the glow had sunk from her soul, and a gray wintry mist had settled down upon her spirit.
So we judged it better put off till Tuesday."
At times indeed he felt as if he were speaking to him immediately-and to him only; at others, although then he saw her no more than him, that he was comforting the sister individually, in holding out to her brother the mighty hope of a restored purity.
Helen hastened to meet him.
"Why not to morrow?" said Leopold.
The reason of George Bascombe's absence from church that morning was, that, after an early breakfast, he had mounted Helen's mare, and set out to call on mr Hooker before he should have gone to church.
And he wanted a run after the hounds to morrow.
As the sermon drew to a close, and the mist of his emotion began to disperse, individual faces of his audience again dawned out on the preacher's ken.
Imagine saint Paul having a prevision of how he would be misunderstood, AND HEEDING IT!--what would then have become of all those his most magnificent outbursts?
Or, if he fancied he must speak of confession, why did he not speak of it in plain honest terms, instead of suggesting the idea of it so that the poor boy imagined it came from his own spirit, and must therefore be obeyed as the will of God?"
Had she not done enough?
To explain to him who loves not, is but to give him the more plentiful material for misinterpretation.
Would even her father require more of her than she had already done and endured?
Small was the suspicion in the Abbey Church of Olaston that morning, that the well-known successful man of business was weeping.
"Well, George?" she said, anxiously.
AFTER THE SERMON.
Let a man have truth in the inward parts, and out of the abundance of his heart let his mouth speak. If then he should have ground to fear honest misunderstanding, let him preach again to enforce the truth for which he is jealous, and if it should seem to any that the two utterances need reconciling, let those who would have them consistent reconcile them for themselves.
At length the mare's hoofs echoed through all Sunday Glaston, and presently George rode up.
How far she mistook, or how far she knew or suspected that she spoke falsely, I will not pretend to know. But although she spoke as she did, there was something, either in the curate or in the sermon, that had quieted her a little, and she was less contemptuous in her condemnation of him than usual.
So also was Leopold, but the hopes of the two were different.
Happily both for himself and others, the curate was not one of those who cripple the truth and blind their own souls by
True it was already fading away, but the eyes had wept, the glow yet hung about cheek and forehead, and the firm mouth had forgotten itself into a tremulous form, which the stillness of absorption had there for the moment fixed.
"I'll just run and show myself to Leopold: he must not suspect that I am of your party and playing him false.
For all the statements it contains, full and satisfactory authorities will be found in the two larger works.
This Third book-"The Story of Ancient Irish Civilisation"--gives in simple, plain language, an account of the condition of the country in the olden time; but as it is here to speak for itself, I need not describe it further.
The ordinary history of our country has been written by many, and the reader has a wide choice.
The publication comes at an appropriate time, when there is an awakening of interest in the Irish language, and in Irish lore of every kind, unparalleled in our history.
But it is better not to pursue these observations farther here, as it would be only anticipating what will be found in the body of the book.
But there were, and are, Englishmen better informed about our country. More than three hundred years ago the great English poet, Edmund Spenser, lived for some time in Ireland, and made himself well acquainted with its history.
This book, so far as it finds its way among the two classes above mentioned, will, I fancy, open their eyes.
There are many English and many Anglo Irish people who think, merely from ignorance, that Ireland was a barbarous and half savage country before the English came among the people and civilised them.
But the book has a further mission.
This book is the last of a series of three, of which the second is abridged from the first, and the third from both.
But in the matter of our Social History he has no choice at all.
PREFACE.
I have done my best to make all three readable and interesting, as well as instructive.
The men were as particular about the beard as about the hair.
From what precedes it will be understood that combs were in general use with men as well as with women; and many specimens of combs are now found in the remains of ancient dwellings.
Nearly all have a mustache, in most cases curled up and pointed at the ends as we often see now.
Among Greek and Roman ladies the practice was very general of painting the cheeks, eyebrows, and other parts of the face.
A short cape was often worn on the shoulders, sometimes carrying a hood to cover the head.
In nearly all the figures of the Book of Kells, for example (seventh or eighth century), the hair is combed and dressed with the utmost care, so beautifully adjusted indeed that it could have been done only by skilled professional hairdressers, and must have occupied much time.
I do not find mentioned anywhere that the Irish dyed their hair, as was the custom among the Greeks and romans.
Silk and satin, which were of course imported, were much worn among the higher classes.
The outer covering of the general run of the peasantry was just one loose sleeved coat or mantle, generally of frieze, which covered them down to the ankles; and which they wore winter and summer.
The fashion of wearing the beard varied.
Shoes were often made of untanned hide stitched with thongs, with several layers for a sole.
The ancient Irish loved bright colours.
In every public hostel, in every monastery, and in every high class house, there was a bath, with its accompaniments.
Bathing was very usual, at least among the upper classes, and baths and the use of baths are constantly mentioned in the old tales and other writings.
An oval face, broad above and narrow below, golden hair, fair skin, white, delicate, and well formed hands with slender tapering fingers: these were considered as marking the type of beauty and of high family descent; they were the Marks of Aristocracy.
To these natural advantages the people added by the usual artificial means.
King Domnall, in the seventh century, on one occasion sent a many coloured tunic to his foster son Prince Congal: like Joseph's coat of many colours.
It was considered shameful for a man of position to have rough unkempt nails. Crimson coloured finger nails were greatly admired; and ladies sometimes dyed them this colour.
The furs of animals, such as seals, otters, badgers, foxes, etc, were much used for capes and jackets, and for the edgings of various garments, so that skins of all the various kinds were valuable.
The over garments were fastened by brooches, pins, buttons, girdles, strings, and loops, many of them beautifully made and ornamented.
Thin circular gold plates were also worn fastened on the breast: and as for brooches, they were of all shapes and sizes, some plain, simple, and cheap, some of gold or other expensive material, of elaborate workmanship.
Married women usually had the head covered either with a hood or with a long web of linen wreathed round and round in several folds.
A very common article of dress was a large cloak, generally without sleeves, varying in length, but commonly covering the whole person from the shoulders down.
But there was a more shapely shoe, made of fully tanned leather, having serviceable sole and heel, and often ornamented with patterns stamped in.
The Irish were excessively fond of personal ornaments, which among the higher classes were made of expensive materials, such as gold, silver, gems, white bronze, etc
Among the higher classes the finger nails were kept carefully cut and rounded.
Like other Irish garments it was generally striped or speckled in various colours.
The hair was combed daily after a bath.
The veil was in constant use among the higher classes, and when not actually worn was usually carried, among other small articles, in a lady's ornamental hand bag.
Even the single outer cloak was often striped, spotted, or chequered in various colours.
When terminating below the ankles it was held down by a slender strap passing under the foot.
An entry in Cormac's Glossary plainly indicates that the blush of the cheeks was sometimes heightened by a colouring matter obtained from the alder tree: and the sprigs and berries of the elder were applied to the same purpose.
Soap was used both in bathing and washing.
They formed, too, an important item of everyday traffic, and they were also exported.
The heroes of the Fena of Erin, before sitting down to their dinner after a hard day's hunting, always took a bath and carefully combed their long hair.
So these three for a while stayed the first onset of the enemy; and the men of Rome meanwhile brake down the bridge.
But when men heard of his coming, so mighty a city was Clusium in those days, and so great the fame of King Porsenna, there was such fear as had never been before.
"Suffer not," they said, "that we, who are Tuscans by birth, should remain any more in poverty and exile.
In the meanwhile I, so far as one man may do, will stay the enemy." And as he spake he ran forward to the farther end of the bridge and made ready to keep the way against the enemy.
There was a certain hill which men called Janiculum on the side of the river, and this hill King Porsenna took by a sudden attack.
And take heed also to thyself and thine own kingdom if thou permit this new fashion of driving forth kings to go unpunished.
Nevertheless they were steadfastly purposed to hold out.
Do ye therefore break it down with axe and fire as best ye can.
Nor did such valor fail to receive due honor from the city.
During these calm intervals I replenished my fire-sometimes without leaving the nest, for fire and woodpile were so near this could easily be done-or busied myself with my notebook, watching the gestures of the trees in taking the snow, examining separate crystals under a lens, and learning the methods of their deposition as an enduring fountain for the streams.
But, as I had left my coat in camp for the sake of having my limbs free in climbing, I soon was cold.
The time was far too late, the snow was too loose and deep to climb, and I should be lost in drifts and slides.
The ordinary sensations of cold give but a faint conception of that which comes on after hard climbing with want of food and sleep in such exposure as this.
Melted snow answered for coffee, and we had plenty of venison to roast.
The hail gave place to snow, and darkness came on like night.
Then, after the sky cleared, we gazed at the stars, blessed immortals of light, shining with marvelous brightness with long lance rays, near looking and new looking, as if never seen before.
The tempered area to which we had committed ourselves extended over about one fourth of an acre; but it was only about an eighth of an inch in thickness, for the scalding gas jets were shorn off close to the ground by the oversweeping flood of frosty wind.
Our frozen trousers could scarcely be made to bend at the knee, and we waded the snow with difficulty.
Some crystals landed with their rays almost perfect, but most of them were worn and broken by striking against one another, or by rolling on the ground.
My bedroom was flooded with sunshine, and from the window I saw the great white Shasta cone clad in forests and clouds and bearing them loftily in the sky. Everything seemed full and radiant with the freshness and beauty and enthusiasm of youth.
Our discussions ended, Jerome made a dash from the shelter of the lava block and began forcing his way back against the wind to the "Hot Springs," wavering and struggling to resist being carried away, as if he were fording a rapid stream.
I frequently sank to my armpits between buried blocks of loose lava, but generally only to my knees.
Could we at once have begun to descend the snow slopes leading to the timber, we might have made good our escape, however dark and wild the storm.
The first rains had fallen on the lowlands, and the first snows on the mountains, and everything was fresh and bracing, while an abundance of balmy sunshine filled all the noonday hours.
In the mean time clouds were growing down in Shasta Valley-massive swelling cumuli, displaying delicious tones of purple and gray in the hollows of their sun beaten bosses.
The acrid incrustations sublimed from the escaping gases frequently gave way, opening new vents to scald us; and, fearing that if at any time the wind should fall, carbonic acid, which often formed a considerable portion of the gaseous exhalations of volcanoes, might collect in sufficient quantities to cause sleep and death, I warned Jerome against forgetting himself for a single moment, even should his sufferings admit of such a thing.
On the contrary they impressed one as being lasting additions to the landscape.
I held my commanding foothold in the sky for two hours, gazing on the glorious landscapes spread maplike around the immense horizon, and tracing the outlines of the ancient lava streams extending far into the surrounding plains, and the pathways of vanished glaciers of which Shasta had been the center.
But there was not a trace of that warm, flushing sunrise splendor we so long had hoped for.
In the afternoon we reached Strawberry Valley and fell asleep.
At nine a m the dry thermometer stood at thirty four degrees in the shade and rose steadily until at one p m it stood at fifty degrees, probably influenced somewhat by radiation from the sun warmed cliffs.
Sisson's children came in with flowers and covered my bed, and the storm on the mountaintop banished like a dream.
Our feet were frozen, and thawing them was painful, and had to be done very slowly by keeping them buried in soft snow for several hours, which avoided permanent damage. Five thousand feet below the summit we found only three inches of new snow, and at the base of the mountain only a slight shower of rain had fallen, showing how local our storm had been, notwithstanding its terrific fury.
The precious bread sack was placed safely as a pillow, and when at length the first flakes fell I was exultingly ready to welcome them.
The snow was as dry as meal, and the finer particles drifted freely, rising high in the air, while the larger portions of the crystals rolled like sand.
The mountain rises ten thousand feet above the general level of the country, in blank exposure to the deep upper currents of the sky, and no labyrinth of peaks and canyons I had ever been in seemed to me so dangerous as these immense slopes, bare against the sky.
The steepness of the slope-thirty five degrees in some places-made any kind of progress fatiguing, while small avalanches were being constantly set in motion in the steepest places.
Violets appeared along the edges of the trail, and the chaparral was coming into bloom, with young lilies and larkspurs about the open places in rich profusion.
There was a deliberate growth of clouds, a weaving of translucent tissue above, then the roar of the wind and the thunder, and the darkening flight of snow. Its subsidence was not less sudden.
But my fire glowed bravely as if in glad defiance of the drift to quench it, and, notwithstanding but little trace of my nest could be seen after the snow had leveled and buried it, I was snug and warm, and the passionate uproar produced a glad excitement.
Jerome accompanied me a little distance above camp and indicated the way as well as he could in the darkness.
Then the bitter wind and the drift would break the blissful vision and dreary pains cover us like clouds.
When day dawned the clouds were crawling slowly and becoming more massive, but gave no intimation of immediate danger, and I pushed on faithfully, though holding myself well in hand, ready to return to the timber; for it was easy to see that the storm was not far off.
Snowstorms of the same gentle kind abound among the high peaks, but in spring they not unfrequently attain larger proportions, assuming a violence and energy of expression scarcely surpassed by those bred in the depths of winter.
The weather of the springtime and summer, throughout the Sierra in general, is usually varied by slight local rains and dustings of snow, most of which are obviously far too joyous and life giving to be regarded as storms-single clouds growing in the sunny sky, ripening in an hour, showering the heated landscape, and passing away like a thought, leaving no visible bodily remains to stain the sky.
The weary hours wore away like dim half forgotten years, so long and eventful they seemed, though we did nothing but suffer.
He seemed loath to leave me, but, being reassured that I was at home and required no care, he bade me good bye and returned to camp, ready to lead his animals down the mountain at daybreak.
When the heat became unendurable, on some spot where steam was escaping through the sludge, we tried to stop it with snow and mud, or shifted a little at a time by shoving with our heels; for to stand in blank exposure to the fearful wind in our frozen and broiled condition seemed certain death.
No inexperienced person was depending on me, and I told Jerome that we two mountaineers should be able to make our way down through any storm likely to fall.
The summit ridge was fortunately wind swept and nearly bare, so we were not compelled to lift our feet high, and on reaching the long home slopes laden with loose snow we made rapid progress, sliding and shuffling and pitching headlong, our feebleness accelerating rather than diminishing our speed.
The creative sun shone glorious on the vast expanse of cloudland; hill and dale, mountain and valley springing into existence responsive to his rays and steadily developing in beauty and individuality.
On the twenty eighth of April [eighteen seventy five] I led a party up the mountain for the purpose of making a survey of the summit with reference to the location of the Geodetic monument.
The touch of these snow flowers in calm weather is infinitely gentle-glinting, swaying, settling silently in the dry mountain air, or massed in flakes soft and downy.
But anxiety to complete my observations stifled my own instinctive promptings to retreat, and held me to my work.
The mountain sheep also, quite a large flock of them, came to my camp and took shelter beside a clump of matted dwarf pines a little above my nest.
A Perilous Night on Shasta's Summit
Squirrels, dry and elastic after the storms, were busy about their stores of pine nuts, and the latest goldenrods were still in bloom, though it was now past the middle of October.
At length, after the temperature was somewhat mitigated on this memorable first of May, we arose and began to struggle homeward.
This is the kind of cloud in which snow flowers grow, and I turned and fled.
I gazed enchanted, but cold gray masses, drifting like dust on a wind swept plain, began to shut out the light, forerunners of the coming storm I had been so anxiously watching.
On the thirtieth, accompanied by Jerome Fay, I made another ascent to make some barometrical observations, the day intervening between the two ascents being devoted to establishing a camp on the extreme edge of the timberline.
When I arrived at Sisson's everything was quiet.
The wind, rising to the highest pitch of violence, boomed and surged amid the desolate crags; lightning flashes in quick succession cut the gloomy darkness; and the thunders, the most tremendously loud and appalling I ever heard, made an almost continuous roar, stroke following stroke in quick, passionate succession, as though the mountain were being rent to its foundations and the fires of the old volcano were breaking forth again.
The mealy snow sifted into the folds of our clothing and in many places reached the skin.
The storm lasted about a week, but before it was ended Sisson became alarmed and sent up the guide with animals to see what had become of me and recover the camp outfit.
Up to the time the storm first broke on the summit its development was remarkably gentle.
Accordingly, when during the long, dreary watches of the night we roused from a state of half consciousness, we called each other by name in a frightened, startled way, each fearing the other might be benumbed or dead.
But on my first excursion to the summit the whole mountain, down to its low swelling base, was smoothly laden with loose fresh snow, presenting a most glorious mass of winter mountain scenery, in the midst of which I scrambled and reveled or lay snugly snowbound, enjoying the fertile clouds and the snow bloom in all their growing, drifting grandeur.
No hint was given, by anything in their appearance, of the fleeting character of these most sublime and beautiful cloud mountains.
Several times, when the storm ceased for a few minutes, a Douglas squirrel came frisking from the foot of a clump of dwarf pines, moving in sudden interrupted spurts over the bossy snow; then, without any apparent guidance, he would dig rapidly into the drift where were buried some grains of barley that the horses had left.
For the duller and fainter we became the clearer was our vision, though only in momentary glimpses.
They were then on their way south to their winter homes, leading their young full fledged and about as large and strong as the parents.
A pitch pine fire speedily changed the temperature and shed a blaze of light on the wild lava slope and the straggling storm bent pines around us.
Most of my firewood was more than half rosin and would blaze in the face of the fiercest drifting; the winds could not demolish my bed, and my bread could be made to last indefinitely; while in case of need I had the means of making snowshoes and could retreat or hold my ground as I pleased.
A pedestrian on these mountain roads, especially so late in the year, is sure to excite curiosity, and many were the interrogations concerning my ramble.
We shall have to wait for sunshine, and when will it come?"
The storm side of my blankets was fastened down with stakes to reduce as much as possible the sifting in of drift and the danger of being blown away.
Presently thin, fibrous films of cloud began to blow directly over the summit from north to south, drawn out in long fairy webs like carded wool, forming and dissolving as if by magic.
Next morning, having slept little the night before the ascent and being weary with climbing after the excitement was over, I slept late.
I reached camp about an hour before dusk, hollowed a strip of loose ground in the lee of a large block of red lava, where firewood was abundant, rolled myself in my blankets, and went to sleep.
"Are you suffering much?" Jerome would inquire with pitiful faintness.
At ten a m we reached the timber and were safe.
The wind increased in violence, raising the snow in magnificent drifts that were drawn out in the form of wavering banners blowing in the sun
All my friends among the birds and plants seemed like OLD friends, and we felt like speaking to every one of them as we passed, as if we had been a long time away in some far, strange country.
Frozen, blistered, famished, benumbed, our bodies seemed lost to us at times-all dead but the eyes.
The wind swept past in hissing floods, grinding the snow into meal and sweeping down into the hollows in enormous drifts all the heavier particles, while the finer dust was sifted through the sky, increasing the icy gloom.
Again they would look familiar and remind us of stargazing at home.
Such was the storm now gathering about us.
We had been so long without food that we cared but little about eating, but we eagerly drank the coffee he prepared for us.
But the next spring, on the other side of this eventful winter, I saw and felt still more of the Shasta snow.
But the bracing air and the sublime beauty of the snowy expanse thrilled every nerve and made absolute exhaustion impossible.
I had walked from Redding, sauntering leisurely from station to station along the old Oregon stage road, the better to see the rocks and plants, birds and people, by the way, tracing the rushing Sacramento to its fountains around icy Shasta.
One huge mountain cone of cloud, corresponding to Mount Shasta in these newborn cloud ranges, rose close alongside with a visible motion, its firm, polished bosses seeming so near and substantial that we almost fancied that we might leap down upon them from where we stood and make our way to the lowlands.
Here he opened a council in which, under circumstances sufficiently exciting but without evincing any bewilderment, he maintained, in opposition to my views, that it was impossible to proceed.
Sisson, who is a mountaineer, speedily fitted me out for storm or calm as only a mountaineer could, with warm blankets and a week's provisions so generous in quantity and kind that they easily might have been made to last a month in case of my being closely snowbound.
When I said that I was simply taking a walk, and that icy Shasta was my mark, I was invariably admonished that I had come on a dangerous quest.
The frost was intense, and drifting snow dust made breathing at times rather difficult.
This was the bloom time, the summer of the cloud, and never before have I seen even a mountain cloud flowering so profusely.
Jerome peered at short intervals over the ridge, contemplating the rising clouds with anxious gestures in the rough wind, and at length declared that if we did not make a speedy escape we should be compelled to pass the rest of the day and night on the summit.
As it was, we had first to make our way along a dangerous ridge nearly a mile and a half long, flanked in many places by steep ice slopes at the head of the Whitney Glacier on one side and by shattered precipices on the other.
After breaking a trail through the snow as far as possible he had tied his animals and walked up.
Well I knew the weariness of snow climbing, and the frosts, and the dangers of mountaineering so late in the year; therefore I could not ask a guide to go with me, even had one been willing.
At first the cliffs were beaten with hail, every stone of which, as far as I could see, was regular in form, six sided pyramids with rounded base, rich and sumptuous looking, and fashioned with loving care, yet seemingly thrown away on those desolate crags down which they went rolling, falling, sliding in a network of curious streams.
When tired with walking I still wallowed slowly upward on all fours.
On the fifth day I returned to Sisson's, and from that comfortable base made excursions, as the weather permitted, to the Black Butte, to the foot of the Whitney Glacier, around the base of the mountain, to Rhett and Klamath Lakes, to the Modoc region and elsewhere, developing many interesting scenes and experiences.
To go farther was out of the question, so we were compelled to camp as best we could.
The crisp crystal flowers seemed to touch one another and fairly to thicken the tremendous blast that carried them.
I seemed to be walking and wallowing in a cloud; but, holding steadily onward, by half past ten o'clock I had gained the highest summit.
Toward the end of my stay a succession of small clouds struck against the summit rocks like drifting icebergs, darkening the air as they passed, and producing a chill as definite and sudden as if ice water had been dashed in my face.
The thermometer fell twenty two degrees in a few minutes, and soon dropped below zero.
Nevertheless, before noon of the second of November I was in the frosty azure of the utmost summit.
It is a kind of second life, available only in emergencies like this; and, having proved its existence, I had no great fear that either of us would fail, though one of my arms was already benumbed and hung powerless.
Our feet were wrapped in sacking, and we were soon mounted and on our way down into the thick sunshine-"God's Country," as Sisson calls the Chaparral Zone.
After we had forced our way down the ridge and past the group of hissing fumaroles, the storm became inconceivably violent.
After waiting and watching in vain for some flaw in the storm that might be urged as a new argument in favor of attempting the descent, I was compelled to follow.
These higher and finer cloud fabrics were evidently produced by the chilling of the air from its own expansion caused by the upward deflection of the wind against the slopes of the mountain.
The sky speedily darkened, and just as I had completed my last observation and boxed my instruments ready for the descent, the storm began in serious earnest.
Day after day the storm continued, piling snow on snow in weariless abundance.
Extending gradually southward around on both sides of Shasta, these at length united with the older field towards Lassen's Butte, thus encircling Mount Shasta in one continuous cloud zone.
The grand color glow-the autumnal jubilee of ripe leaves-was past prime, but, freshened by the rain, was still making a fine show along the banks of the river and in the ravines and the dells of the smaller streams.
Toward midnight I rolled myself in my blankets, slept an hour and a half, arose and ate more venison, tied two days' provisions to my belt, and set out for the summit, hoping to reach it ere the coming storm should fall.
During the storm we lay on our backs so as to present as little surface as possible to the wind, and to let the drift pass over us.
At the salmon hatching establishment on the McCloud River I halted a week to examine the limestone belt, grandly developed there, to learn what I could of the inhabitants of the river and its banks, and to give time for the fresh snow that I knew had fallen on the mountain to settle somewhat, with a view to making the ascent.
All I wanted was to have blankets and provisions deposited as far up in the timber as the snow would permit a pack animal to go.
Here, on our red trachyte bed, we obtained two hours of shallow sleep broken for occasional glimpses of the keen, starry night.
Next morning we seemed to have risen from the dead.
We were glad at first to see the snow packing about us, hoping it would deaden the force of the wind, but it soon froze into a stiff, crusty heap as the temperature fell, rather augmenting our novel misery.
Oftentimes imagination coming into play would present charming pictures of the warm zone below, mingled with others near and far.
To lie out alone in the mountains of a still night and be touched by the first of these small silent messengers from the sky is a memorable experience, and the fineness of that touch none will forget. But the storm blast laden with crisp, sharp snow seems to crush and bruise and stupefy with its multitude of stings, and compels the bravest to turn and flee.
And how lavishly the snow fell only mountaineers may know.
Still the pain was not always of that bitter, intense kind that precludes thought and takes away all capacity for enjoyment.
When, therefore, the darkness came on, and the bewildering drift, I felt confident that we could force our way through it with no other guidance.
Here they were in danger of being lost, but after we had removed packs and saddles and assisted their efforts with ropes, they all escaped to the side of a ridge about a thousand feet below the timberline.
Rhett and Klamath Lakes were eclipsed beneath clouds scarcely less brilliant than their own silvery disks.
Life is then seen to be a fire, that now smoulders, now brightens, and may be easily quenched.
A common bumblebee, not at all benumbed, zigzagged vigorously about our heads for a few moments, as if unconscious of the fact that the nearest honey flower was a mile beneath him.
Then, awaking suddenly, my eyes opened on one of the most beautiful and sublime scenes I ever enjoyed.
Toward the end of summer, after a light, open winter, one may reach the summit of Mount Shasta without passing over much snow, by keeping on the crest of a long narrow ridge, mostly bare, that extends from near the camp ground at the timberline.
The Douglas squirrel does not strictly belong to these upper woods, and I was surprised to see him out in such weather.
The animals began to get discouraged, and after night and darkness came on they became entangled in a bed of rough lava, where, breaking through four or five feet of mealy snow, their feet were caught between angular boulders.
The wind twisted them into ringlets and whirled them in a succession of graceful convolutions like the outside sprays of Yosemite Falls in flood time; then, sailing out into the thin azure over the precipitous brink of the ridge they were drifted together like wreaths of foam on a river.
The clouds broke and vanished, not a crystal was left in the sky, and the stars shone out with pure and tranquil radiance.
In about thirteen hours-every hour like a year-day began to dawn, but it was long ere the summit's rocks were touched by the sun No clouds were visible from where we lay, yet the morning was dull and blue, and bitterly frosty; and hour after hour passed by while we eagerly watched the pale light stealing down the ridge to the hollow where we lay.
Mountaineers, however, always find in themselves a reserve of power after great exhaustion.
Apprehensive of this coming darkness, I had taken the precaution, when the storm began, to make the most dangerous points clear to my mind, and to mark their relations with reference to the direction of the wind.
After passing the "Hot Springs" I halted in the lee of a lava block to let Jerome, who had fallen a little behind, come up.
When I hinted that new snow was beautiful and storms not so bad as they were called, my advisers shook their heads in token of superior knowledge and declared the ascent of "Shasta Butte" through loose snow impossible.
My barometer and the sighing winds and filmy half transparent clouds that dimmed the sunshine gave notice of the approach of another storm, and I was in haste to be off and get myself established somewhere in the midst of it, whether the summit was to be attained or not.
The slight weariness of the ascent was soon rested away, and our glorious morning in the sky promised nothing but enjoyment.
But the bloom of this fertile snow cloud grew and matured and fell to a depth of two feet in a few hours.
That was the story-that she was always, for her beneficent dragon, under arms; living up, every hour, but especially at festal hours, to the "value" mrs Lowder had attached to her.
"Ah she's a thousand and one things!" replied the good lady, as if now to keep well with him.
High and fixed, this estimate ruled on each occasion at Lancaster Gate the social scene; so that he now recognised in it something like the artistic idea, the plastic substance, imposed by tradition, by genius, by criticism, in respect to a given character, on a distinguished actress.
He would have liked as well to ask her how feasible she supposed it for a poor young man to resemble her at any point; but he had after all soon enough perceived that he was doing as she wished by letting his wonder show just a little as silly.
"Remember, mrs Stringham, that you weren't then present."
But she PASSED, the poor performer-he could see how she always passed; her wig, her paint, her jewels, every mark of her expression impeccable, and her entrance accordingly greeted with the proper round of applause.
Hadn't he more or less paved the way for her by his prompt recognition of her rarity, by preceding her, in a friendly spirit-as he had the "ear" of society-with a sharp flashlight or two?
"Ah there you are!" said Kate with much gay expression, though what it expressed he failed at the time to make out.
It would be mrs Stringham's, however, she understood, because mrs Stringham, oddly, felt that with such stuff as the strange English girl was made of, stuff that (in spite of Maud Manningham, who was full of sentiment) she had never known, there was none other to be employed.
It was mrs Stringham, obviously, whose testimony would have been most invoked hadn't she been, as her friend's representative, rather confined to the function of inhaling the incense; so that Kate, who treated her beautifully, smiling at her, cheering and consoling her across the table, appeared benevolently both to speak and to interpret for her.
He had supposed himself civilised; but if this was civilisation-!
What touched him most nearly was that the occasion took on somehow the air of a commemorative banquet, a feast to celebrate a brilliant if brief career.
He hadn't pretended he did, but there was a purity of reproach in mrs Stringham's face and tone, a purity charged apparently with solemn meanings; so that for a little, small as had been his claim, he couldn't but feel that she exaggerated.
He didn't believe in it, but he pretended to; this helped her as well as anything else to treat him as harmless and blameless.
She would like-Milly had had it from her-to put Kate Croy in a book and see what she could so do with her.
Even the joke made mrs Stringham uneasy, and her mute communion with Densher, to which we have alluded, was more and more determined by it.
This was exactly, goodness knew, what he wanted to be; but he had never had it so largely and freely-SO supernaturally simply, for that matter-imputed to him as of easy achievement.
"No, of course I didn't forget her.
"Oh it's precisely my point that mr Densher CAN'T have had vast opportunities." And then she smiled at him.
Her companion, at the last moment, had been indisposed-positively not well enough, and so had packed her off, insistently, with excuses, with wild regrets.
She was perfectly kind to Susie: it was as if she positively knew her as handicapped for any disagreement by feeling that she, Kate, had "type," and by being committed to admiration of type.
If she actually missed, at any rate, mrs Stringham's discomfort, that but showed how her own idea held her.
He HAD unearthed her, but it was they, all of them together, who had developed her.
There WERE plenty of people who were nothing over there and yet were awfully taken up in England; just as-to make the balance right, thank goodness-they sometimes sent out beauties and celebrities who left the Briton cold.
They dreamt dreams, in truth, he appeared to perceive, that fairly waked HIM up, and he settled himself in his place both to resist his embarrassment and to catch the full revelation.
The drama, at all events, as Densher saw it, meanwhile went on-amplified soon enough by the advent of two other guests, stray gentlemen both, stragglers in the rout of the season, who visibly presented themselves to Kate during the next moments as subjects for a like impersonal treatment and sharers in a like usual mercy.
She was so engaged, with the further aid of a complete absence of allusions, when the highest effect was given her method by the beautiful entrance of Kate.
He asked nothing better.
It was made up, the character, of definite elements and touches-things all perfectly ponderable to criticism; and the way for her to meet criticism was evidently at the start to be sure her make-up had had the last touch and that she looked at least no worse than usual.
Densher saw himself for the moment as in his purchased stall at the play; the watchful manager was in the depths of a box and the poor actress in the glare of the footlights.
She became aware of America, under his eyes, as a possible scene for social operations; the idea of a visit to the wonderful country had clearly but just occurred to her, yet she was talking of it, at the end of a minute, as her favourite dream.
This apprehension, however, we hasten to add, enjoyed for him, in the immediate event, a certain merciful shrinkage; the immediate event being that, at Lancaster Gate, five minutes after his due arrival, prescribed him for eight thirty, mrs Stringham came in alone.
"Expecting American friends whom I'm so glad to find you know!" His knowledge of American friends was clearly an accident of which he was to taste the fruit to the last bitterness.
At opposite ends of the social course, they displayed, in respect to the "figure" that each, in his way, made, one the expansive, the other the contractile effect of the perfect white waistcoat.
She made it indeed effective for him by suddenly addressing him.
Her little dry New England brightness-he had "sampled" all the shades of the American complexity, if complexity it were-had its actual reasons for finding relief most in silence; so that before the subject was changed he perceived (with surprise at the others) that they had given her enough of it.
"You know nothing, sir-but not the least little bit-about my friend."
He met mrs Stringham's, which affected him: with her he could on occasion clear it up-a sense produced by the mute communion between them and really the beginning, as the event was to show, of something extraordinary.
It was at all events characteristic, and what was of the essence of it was grist to his scribbling mill, matter for his journalising hand.
"You weren't present THEN, dearest," mrs Lowder richly concurred.
"Well, the impression was as deep as you like.
"She was off with you to these parts before I knew it.
"I wasn't away, you know, long."
She welcomed him genially back from the States, as to his view of which her few questions, though not coherent, were comprehensive, and he had the amusement of seeing in her, as through a clear glass, the outbreak of a plan and the sudden consciousness of a curiosity.
To spare him therefore she also avoided discussion; she kept him down by refusing to quarrel with him.
The ear of society?--they were talking, or almost, as if he had publicly paragraphed a modest young lady.
This was what she now proposed to him to enjoy, and his secret discomfort was his sense that on the whole it was what would best suit him.
"What do you offer, what do you offer?"--the place, however muffled in convenience and decorum, constantly hummed for him with that thick irony.
He met it peacefully, a little perhaps as an example to mrs Stringham-"Oh as far on as you like!" This even had its effect: mrs Stringham appropriated as much of it as might be meant for herself.
That hand already, in intention, played over it, the "motive," as a sign of the season, a feature of the time, of the purely expeditious and rough and tumble nature of the social boom.
"I certainly don't know enormously much-beyond her having been most kind to me, in New York, as a poor bewildered and newly landed alien, and my having tremendously appreciated it." To which he added, he scarce knew why, what had an immediate success.
He met, poor Densher, these enquiries as he could, listening with interest, yet with discomfort; wincing in particular, dry journalist as he was, to find it seemingly supposed of him that he had put his pen-oh his "pen!"--at the service of private distinction.
She was always a charmer, one of the greatest ever seen, but she wasn't the person he had "backed."
"That accounts for the mask.
There are ten thousand here.
The man was dead now-there would be disgrace enough for some one to bear, a mother perhaps-who knew!
"In private, eh?"--he seemed to be sparring for time, as he smiled.
For a moment Carling hesitated; then, with a half muttered oath, obeyed.
"Sit down!" he gritted between his teeth.
At the corner he stopped to light a cigarette-and the flame of the match spurting up disclosed a face that was worn and haggard.
He began to drum nervously with his fingers on the desk, and shift uneasily in his chair.
It's quite useless for you to bring it up.
I-" he had reached the other side of the room now-and with a quick, sudden movement jerked his hand to the dial of the safe that stood against the wall.
"You lie!" Ashen to the lips, Carling had risen in his chair.
"I want to see mr Thomas h Carling, cashier of the Hudson Mercantile National Bank-it's very important," said Jimmie Dale earnestly.
And it was safer, much more circumspect on your part, not to order the flat searched at once, but only as a last resort, as it were, after you had led the police to trail him all evening and still remain without a clew-and besides, of course, not until you had planted the evidence that was to damn him and wreck his life and home!
"You were safe enough," he rasped on.
Carling's pen travelled haltingly across the paper then, with a queer, low cry as he signed his name, he dropped the pen from his fingers, and, rising unsteadily from his chair, stumbled away from the desk toward a couch across the room.
Jimmie Dale's lips parted ominously.
Carling's face was ghastly.
Jimmie Dale moved over, and stood in front of Carling on the other side of the desk-and stared silently at the immaculate, fashionably groomed figure before him.
Thank you.
Perhaps you'll be good enough to tell me who you are?"
Then, with an effort, he jerked himself erect in his chair.
Carling was once more the pompous bank official.
She left you there for a moment to answer the door-and you-you"--Jimmie Dale's voice choked again-"you blot on God's earth, you slipped the money and ticket under the child's mattress!"
"I have not used this-yet.
I suppose you want a reward-we'll attend to that, of course.
The actual details of how you stole the money to day do not matter-NOW.
"This way, please."
"Yes," said Jimmie Dale, nodding his head, "I rather thought so.
"My name is-Smith."
"THOMAS h CARLING."
"I want you to listen to a little story first."
"You cur!" said Jimmie Dale again.
"So!" he sneered.
"Oh, that's the game then, eh?
"I won't have anything to do with it."
Carling, in a somewhat pompous fashion, walked straight ahead toward the carved mahogany flat topped desk, and, as he reached it, waved his hand.
He ran quickly up the steps and rang the bell.
He told you to go ahead and act as you saw best.
But now the man made no answer.
Carling's fingers stopped their drumming, slid to the desk edge, tightened there, and a whiteness crept into his face.
Under the circumstances, it is quite impossible that you should have stolen the money yourself, and-"
He was an ex convict, a hardened criminal caught red handed with a portion of the proceeds of robbery-he had succeeded in hiding the remainder of it too cleverly, that was all."
A year ago you saw this night coming-when you must have money, or face ruin and exposure.
For an instant neither man spoke nor moved; then Carling, spare built, dapper in evening clothes, edged back from the desk and laughed a little uncertainly.
What ARE you?
"I guess it's all up.
Behind the other, across the hall, Jimmie Dale followed and close at Carling's heels entered the room, which was fitted up, quite evidently regardless of cost, as a combination library and study.
"Yes!" Carling's voice was excited now, the colour back in his face. "But you-how-do you mean that you are returning the money to the bank?"
"From headquarters-with a report," he said, in a low tone.
Carling's hand dropped to his side.
An ex convict from Sing Sing!
There was no label on it, but it needed none-the strong, penetrating odor of bitter almonds was telltale evidence enough.
Your co officials were opposed to his appointment, but you, do you remember how you pleaded to give the man his chance-and in your hellish ingenuity saw your way then out of the trap!
You brought the parcel home, put it in that safe there-and notified the president of the bank by telephone from here of the robbery, suggesting that police headquarters be advised at once.
"Which I neglected to add," said Jimmie Dale, "was to be made in private."
A minute passed-another.
The white in Carling's face had turned to gray, his lips were working-mechanically he sank down again in his chair.
That's what we suspected.
"Well, it's about time!
"The way you'll fix it will be to write out a confession exonerating Moyne."
"I am mr Carling," replied the other.
You understand now why-don't you?" he said under his breath.
"Exactly," said Jimmie Dale.
His pal?
"Take a chair," he said, over his shoulder-and then, turning in the act of dropping into his own chair, grasped suddenly at the edge of the desk instead, and, with a low, startled cry, stared across the room.
"You cur, with your devil's work!
"Isn't-isn't there some-some way we can fix this?"
"About ten thousand dollars, I should say," said Jimmie Dale slowly.
I've been waiting up for it-though I expected you would telephone rather than this.
You were even generous in the amount you deprived yourself of out of the hundred thousand dollars-for less would have been enough.
"That's why I'm here." He picked up a sheet of writing paper and pushed it across the desk-then a pen, which he dipped into the inkstand, and extended to the other.
"Quite neat!
And then, from first one pocket and then the other, Jimmie Dale took the two packages of banknotes, and, still with out a word, pushed them across the desk until they lay under the other's eyes.
And then, even as Jimmie Dale sprang forward, the other pitched head long over the couch-and in a moment it was over.
His hands went out again-again his tongue moistened his dry lips.
He moistened the adhesive side, and, still holding it by the tweezers, dropped it on his handkerchief and pressed the seal down on the face of the topmost package of banknotes.
"Let me out of this-for God's sake, let me out of this!"
"You found it-WHERE?"
Inside were nearly two dozen little packages of hundred dollar bills.
Carling shivered, and passed a shaking hand across his face.
It was quite dark, too dark for either to distinguish the other's features-and Jimmie Dale's hat was drawn far down over his eyes.
"What is it?"
"I am very stupid.
The pen spluttered on the paper-a bead of sweat spurting from the man's forehead dropped to the sheet.
"Thank you," said Jimmie Dale courteously-and stepped into the hall.
"Just a minute," interposed Jimmie Dale gravely.
"In private!
Presently Jimmie Dale picked up the vial-and dropped it back on the floor again.
"I haven't counted it.
Carling's hand reached out, still shaking, and took the pen; and his body, dragged limply forward, hung over the desk.
The servants will have retired hours ago.
He leaned back and surveyed Jimmie Dale critically with his little black eyes.
A door opened almost instantly, sending a faint glow into the hall from the lighted room; a hurried step crossed the hall-and the outer door was thrown back.
"And yet-"
From the paper, Jimmie Dale's eyes shifted to the figure by the couch-and the paper fluttered suddenly from his fingers to the desk. Carling was reeling, clutching at his throat-a small glass vial rolled upon the carpet.
The other two packages that he had brought with him he added to the rest.
But you were supposed to be a wealthy man in your own right; and so, in reality you were-once.
"What's this?" he demanded hoarsely.
The automatic lifted until the muzzle was on a line with Carling's eyes.
I compliment you!
He had sunk a little deeper in his chair-a dawning look of terror in the eyes that held, fascinated, on Jimmie Dale.
There was just an instant's silence; and then, with a strange, slow, creeping motion, as a panther creeps when about to spring, Jimmie Dale projected his body across the desk-far across it toward the other.
Come in!"
Double crossing him, eh?
I was rather curious to know whether it was locked or not."
Under the prolonged gaze, Carling's composure, in a measure at least, seemed to forsake him.
"I'm ruined-ruined as it is.
Jimmie Dale was leaning back against the door that was closed now behind him-and on Jimmie Dale's face was a black silk mask.
You pretended to be much disappointed at finding Moyne out-you had just come for a little social visit, to get better acquainted with the home life of your employees!
HUDSON MERCANTILE NATIONAL BANK,
Moyne hadn't anything to do with it.
It's safe enough."
The rest of the house was in darkness.
Your bank was robbed this evening at closing time, I understand?"
"You lie!" he cried.
Jimmie Dale slipped his mask into his pocket, and, with the parcel under his arm, stepped to the door and unlocked it.
A little later in the evening, you took these two packages of banknotes from the rest, and with this steamship ticket-which you obtained yesterday while out at lunch by sending a district messenger boy with the money and instructions in a sealed envelope to purchase for you-you went up to the Moynes' flat in Harlem for the purpose of secreting them somewhere there.
A little later perhaps in court-but not now.
It was prussic, or hydrocyanic acid, probably the most deadly poison and the swiftest in its action that was known to science-Carling had provided against that "some day" in his confession!
From headquarters with a report, I think you said?"
"Come back to the desk and sit down in that chair!" he ordered.
"Please don't do that," said Jimmie Dale softly.
He paused for an instant on the threshold for a single, quick, comprehensive glance around the room-then passed on out into the street.
Shall I tell you?
You've a strange method of securing privacy, haven't you?
The man has had his chance already-a better chance than any one with his record ever had before. We took him into the bank knowing that he was an ex convict, but believing that we could make an honest man of him-and this is the result."
An instant Jimmie Dale watched the other, then he picked up the sheet of paper.
"District messenger-some way-in the morning," he murmured.
He held them an instant, staring at them, then methodically began to tear them into little pieces, a strange, tired smile hovering on his lips.
And then Jimmie Dale laughed-not pleasantly.
The lavishness of this bachelor establishment of yours is common talk in New York-far in excess of a bank cashier's salary.
I dare say it would take me half an hour to open it.
"The servants are in bed, of course," he explained, as he led the way toward the lighted room.
"There's just one reason, only one, that keeps me from putting a bullet through you while you sit there. We'll get to that in a moment.
Carling shrank back into his chair, his head huddling into his shoulders.
Carling's tongue sought his lips, made a circuit of them-and he tried to speak, but his voice was an incoherent muttering.
"I'm not sure enough myself-that I could keep my hands off you much longer.
"Carling," said Jimmie Dale hoarsely, "I stood beside a little bed to night and looked at a baby girl-a little baby girl with golden hair, who smiled as she slept."
"I didn't," said Jimmie Dale.
What chance had he!" Jimmie Dale paused, his left hand clenched until the skin formed whitish knobs over the knuckles.
"A story!
"Well, he should have thought of all that before!
I tell you, you lie!"
He whispered:
Your bank was robbed to night of one hundred thousand dollars.
"It's rather a good make, that safe.
Jimmie Dale still leaned over the desk, resting his weight on his right elbow, the automatic in his right hand covering Carling.
"Yes, there's a way, Carling," he said grimly.
I stole the money myself from the bank to night. I guess it's all up.
The automatic in Jimmie Dale's hand edged forward the fraction of an inch.
Why don't you tell me again that I lie-Carling?"
"Well, what is it?" demanded a voice brusquely.
From his pocket he took out the thin metal insignia case, and with the tiny tweezers lifted up one of the gray coloured, diamond shaped paper seals.
It was enough, wasn't it?
"mr Carling," said Jimmie Dale, in a low, even tone, "unless you moderate your voice some one in the house might hear you-I am quite well aware of that.
It was close upon one o'clock in the morning when Jimmie Dale stopped again-this time before a fashionable dwelling just off Central Park. And here, for perhaps the space of a minute, he surveyed the house from the sidewalk-watching, with a sort of speculative satisfaction, a man's shadow that passed constantly to and fro across the drawn blinds of one of the lower windows.
What has a story got to do with this?" snapped Carling.
"Ah, quite so!" he observed.
"I'll telephone headquarters to make the arrest at once."
Jimmie Dale smiled indulgently.
"Some other way-some other way!" Carling was babbling.
The other closed the front door.
"That's it, is it!
"Yes," said Carling.
"Moyne, eh?" Carling was alert, quick now, jerking out his words.
For the past four years, and God knows how many before that, you've gone the pace.
"In Moyne's home-up in Harlem."
He opened it there.
But if that happens, if any one enters this room, if you make a move to touch a button, or in any other way attempt to attract attention, I'll drop you where you stand!" His hand, behind his back, extracted the key from the door lock, held it up for the other to see, then dropped it into his pocket-and his voice, cold before, rang peremptorily now.
A bit melodramatic, isn't it?
What then?
Jimmie Dale gritted his teeth.
Life!
Underground Chinatown-where a man's life was worth the price of an opium pill-or less!
"Sure, youse can!" returned the barkeeper heartily.
Jimmie Dale nodded, grinned back, emptied his glass, and dug for a coin.
Larry the Bat was well enough known to enter Chang Foo's unquestioned, and-but again he shook his head and went on.
Again he was tempted to return to the Sanctuary and make the attempt as Larry the Bat.
It was useless, futile, profitless, for the moment, at least, to disturb himself over his failure-there was the letter!
If he could find the Wowzer, reach the man BEFORE THE LETTER WAS OPENED-Jimmie Dale's lips grew tighter.
With an effort, he choked back the bitter, impotent laugh that rose to his lips.
What sudden emergency was the Gray Seal called upon to face this time-what role, unrehearsed, without warning, must he play?
The letter!
A felon's death-the chair!
He was running now, his hands clenched at his sides; his mind, working subconsciously, urging him onward in a blind, as yet unrealised, objectless way.
Hers!
Jimmie Dale took a box of matches from his pocket.
No; what was apparently the greater risk at least held out the only hope.
Yes; he knew Chang Foo's-too well.
He strained to catch, to individualise the tone sounds that floated in a medley about him.
Indeed, it seemed a great length of time now since he had heard from her even in that way, though it was not so many days ago, after all.
They were talking, laughing around him.
God, if he could get that letter before it was opened-before they KNEW!
A merciless rage, cold, deadly, settled upon him.
It was perhaps fifteen minutes since he had discovered the loss of the letter, and he was walking now through the heart of the Bowery.
The next moment he was lost in a jam of people in the lobby.
The crush in the theatre lobby-the pushing, the jostling, the close contact-the Wowzer, the slickest, cleverest pickpocket in the United States!
The Wowzer! That was it!
The first would not light.
"Glad to know youse, cull!" he exclaimed.
And then a cafe, just ahead, making a corner, gave him the opportunity that he sought. Away from the entrance, on the side street, the brilliant lights from the windows shone out on a comparatively deserted pavement.
But now, too, he was Jimmie Dale again; and, apart from the slightly outthrust jaw, the tight closed lips, impassive, debonair, composed.
A chance!
It had fallen at his feet as he had stooped over for his hat-but from just exactly what direction he could not tell.
As for himself-that was different.
And now he found himself hesitating at the corner of a cross street.
There would be an unexpected aftermath to this exodus of expensively gowned and bejewelled women with their prosperous, well groomed escorts!
"Something up!
The row of seats at whose end he stood was empty now, and, instead of stepping into the thronged aisle, he made his way across to the opposite side of the theatre.
The words had formed themselves into a sort of singsong refrain that, for the last few days, had been running through his head.
It was useless-of course-every effort that he had ever made to find her had been useless.
The sentence was never finished.
It seemed that he could hear the screams of the newsboys now shouting their extras; it seemed that he could see the people, roused to frenzy, swarming in excited crowds, snatching at the papers; he seemed to hear the mob's shouts swell in execration, in exultation-it seemed as though all around him had gone mad.
She was there-but he could not recognise a face that he had never seen!
Buy them off for a larger amount than the many thousands offered for the capture of the Gray Seal?
Others, in the same row of seats as his own, were impatiently waiting to get by him.
Or would they carry in screaming headlines the announcement that the Gray Seal was caged and caught at last, and in three inch type tell the world that the Gray Seal was-Jimmie Dale!
Exactly how he had got there he could not have told; he had only a vague realisation that, following an intuitive sense of direction, he had lost not a second of time in making his way downtown.
"I wonder if it's just a fluke-or something else?
She was safe.
And that was all he had ever seen of her, all that he had ever heard of her-except those letters, of course, each of which had outlined the details of some affair for the Gray Seal to execute.
And she must be one of those around him-one of those crowding either the row of seats in front or behind, or one of those just passing in the aisle.
With a muttered apology, Jimmie Dale raised the seat of his chair, allowing these latter to pass him-and then, slipping the letter into his pocketbook, he snatched up his hat from the seat rack.
Two blocks east was that dark, narrow alleyway, that side door that made the entrance to the Sanctuary.
The second man was even better known than the first; there was not a crook in New York but would side step Lannigan of headquarters, and do it with amazing celerity-if he could!
Hers!
The other had paused at the corner and was staring down the street.
At the worst, there was one mitigating factor in it all.
What new venture did the night hold in store for him?
Chang Foo's!
"Forget it!" observed the barkeeper cordially.
The aisle at his elbow was already crowded with people on their way out. Jimmie Dale stooped down mechanically to reach for his hat beneath his seat-and the next instant he was standing up, staring wildly into the faces around him.
She was too clever, far too clever for that-she, too, would know that he could and would recognise her voice where he could recognise nothing else.
He went on again-his brain incessantly at work.
There was the Wowzer over there-sleek, dapper, squirming in and out of the throng with the agility and stealth of a cat.
A burst of applause echoed through the house, the orchestra was playing, the lights were on, seats banged, there was the bustle of the rising audience, the play was at an end-and for the life of him he could not have remembered a single line of the last act!
And then gradually impulse gave way to calmer reason, and he slowed his pace to a quick, less noticeable walk.
That meant blackmail from them all his life, an intolerable existence, impossible, a hell on earth-the slave, at the beck and call of two of the worst criminals in New York!
There could be no doubt of that. Well, there would be a reckoning at least before the end!
It was in his hand now, those slim, tapering, wonderfully sensitive fingers of Jimmie Dale, that were an "open sesame" to locks and safes, subconsciously telegraphing to his mind the fact that the texture of the paper-was hers.
There was yet a chance.
He had no need to think of her. Whatever the ruin and disaster that faced him in the next few hours, she in any case was safe.
"Nix!" said Jimmie Dale.
THAT was the chance!
A white gloved arm, a voice, and a silvery laugh!
The street seemed to rock about him-and he stared, like a man stricken, white to the lips, ahead of him.
For a moment he could have laughed aloud in a sort of ghastly, defiant mockery-he himself had predicted an unexpected aftermath, had he not!
Once in-where he had to go-and the chances were even, just even, that was all, that he would ever get out.
Know de place?"
Jimmie Dale whistled softly to himself.
And then, suddenly, he realised that he was attracting attention.
Jimmie Dale the millionaire!
"I guess youse won't bump yer head none gettin' around inside."
His mind obsessed, Jimmie Dale's physical acts were almost wholly mechanical.
There was no clew to HER identity in the letter; and where he, for months on end, with even more to work upon, had failed at every turn to trace her, there was little fear that any one else would have any better success.
"T'anks!" said Jimmie Dale gratefully, as he turned away.
A block down, he turned from Broadway out of the theatre crowds that streamed in both directions past him.
Mechanically his hand slipped into his pocket and closed over the automatic that nestled there.
Aftermath!
He beat it about fifteen minutes ago, him an' Dago Jim.
What if-Jimmie Dale smiled whimsically.
She, whom he would have given his life to know, for whom indeed he risked his life every hour of the twenty four, was close to him now, within reach-and as far removed as though a thousand miles separated them.
Time passed.
"Gimme a mug of suds," said Jimmie Dale, reaching for a match.
"I ain't much wise to New York," he explained.
The mystery of the Gray Seal was solved!
The second broke, and, with an exclamation of annoyance, he flung it away.
The Wowzer had probably not worked alone, and he and his pal, or pals, would certainly not remain uptown either to examine or divide their spoils-they would wait until they were safe somewhere in one of their hell holes on the East Side.
It was Jimmie Dale, Jimmie Dale, Jimmie, Dale, the millionaire, the lion of society-and there was ignominy for an honoured name, and shame and disaster and convict stripes and sullen penitentiary walls-or death!
As Larry the Bat he knew every den and lair below the dead line, and he knew, too, the Wowzer's favourite haunts. There was yet a chance, only one in a thousand, it was true, almost too pitiful to be depended upon-but yet a chance.
It had come at last-the pitcher had gone once too often to the well!
After all, he had known it in his heart of hearts all the time-it had always been the same-it was only one more occasion added to the innumerable ones that had gone before in which she had eluded him!
People still passed by him-too many.
THE LETTER WAS GONE!
Time!
It had fallen at his feet-a white envelope.
Used to know de Wowzer dere.
Almost feverishly now he was seeking an opportunity to open and read it unobserved; an eagerness upon him that mingled exhilaration at the lure of danger with a sense of premonition that, irritably, inevitably was with him at moments such as these.
Jimmie Dale shook his head.
An hour, two hours, and New York would be metamorphosed into a seething caldron of humanity bubbling with the news.
What irony!
If he could only get the chance to fight for it-against ANY odds!
The letter-that was paramount now.
It was a voice now, her voice, that he was listening for; but, though it seemed that every faculty was strained and intent upon that one effort, his eyes, too, had in no degree relaxed their vigilance-and once, half grimly, half sardonically, he smiled to himself.
The Gray Seal!
There was not time.
His eyes, eagerly, hungrily, critically, swept face after face. Which one was hers?
Once they knew the contents of that letter-what then?
"I just blew in from Chicago.
Knowing he was there, she would be on her guard; but in the lobby, among the crowd and unaware of his presence, there was the possibility that, if he could reach the entrance ahead of her, she, too, might be talking and laughing as she left the theatre. Just a single word, just a tone-that was all he asked.
And now-there was the letter!
Edward Cooper did not live undistinguished.
The sympathy of Jane was probably, from her age, and her peculiar attachment to her sister, the deepest of all.
Men soon forget the small objects which they leave behind them as they drift down the stream of life.
This dance presented a great show of enjoyment, but it was not without its peculiar troubles.
When they parted, he expressed his intention of soon seeing them again; and Cassandra felt no doubt as to his motives.
First it dropped its iron ring and became a clog; afterwards it was fined down into the pliant galoshe-lighter to wear and more effectual to protect-a no less manifest instance of gradual improvement than Cowper indicates when he traces through eighty lines of poetry his 'accomplished sofa' back to the original three legged stool.
In that simple church she brought them all into subjection to the piety which ruled her in life, and supported her in death.
Gloves immaculately clean were considered requisite for its due performance, while gloves a little soiled were thought good enough for a country dance; and accordingly some prudent ladies provided themselves with two pairs for their several purposes.
I remember two such elegant little wheels in our own family.
I remember to have heard of only two little things different from modern customs.
I am tempted to add a little about the difference of personal habits.
The surface continually swells and sinks, but the hills are not bold, nor the valleys deep; and though it is sufficiently well clothed with woods and hedgerows, yet the poverty of the soil in most places prevents the timber from attaining a large size.
True taste is not fastidious, nor rejects, Because they may not come within the rule Of composition pure and picturesque, Unnumbered simple scenes which fill the leaves Of Nature's sketch book.
There would often be but one sofa in the house, and that a stiff, angular, uncomfortable article. There were no deep easy chairs, nor other appliances for lounging; for to lie down, or even to lean back, was a luxury permitted only to old persons or invalids.
This defence against wet and dirt is now seldom seen.
The same authority informs me that his first cloth suit was made from a scarlet habit, which, according to the fashion of the times, had been his mother's usual morning dress.
The outstretched arms, the advanced foot, the sway of the whole figure backwards and forwards, produced picturesque attitudes, and displayed whatever of grace or beauty the work woman might possess.
As an illustration of the purposes which a patten was intended to serve, I add the following epigram, written by Jane Austen's uncle, mr Leigh Perrot, on reading in a newspaper the marriage of Captain Foote to Miss Patten:--
Still it has its beauties.
The picture was drawn from the intuitive perceptions of genius, not from personal experience.
She was a dear friend of her namesake, but was fated to become a cause of great sorrow to her, for a few years after the marriage she was suddenly killed by an accident to her carriage.
CHAPTER two.
It was to be found only where there was a decided taste for music, not so common then as now, or in such great houses as would probably contain a billiard table.
The family was unbroken by death, and seldom visited by sorrow.
Jane Cooper was married from her uncle's house at Steventon, to Captain, afterwards Sir Thomas Williams, under whom Charles Austen served in several ships.
Any description that I might attempt of the family life at Steventon, which closed soon after I was born, could be little better than a fancy piece.
She said that, while staying at some seaside place, they became acquainted with a gentleman, whose charm of person, mind, and manners was such that Cassandra thought him worthy to possess and likely to win her sister's love.
But they never again met.
The carriage, once bought, entailed little further expense; and the horses probably, like mr Bennet's, were often employed on farm work. Moreover, it should be remembered that a pair of horses in those days were almost necessary, if ladies were to move about at all; for neither the condition of the roads nor the style of carriage building admitted of any comfortable vehicle being drawn by a single horse.
We may rejoice that these causes of irritation no longer exist; and that if such feelings as jealousy, rivalry, and discontent ever touch celestial bosoms in the modern ball room they must arise from different and more recondite sources.
If all this is true, the future admiral of the British Fleet must have cut a conspicuous figure in the hunting field.
One house would pride itself on its ham, another on its game pie, and a third on its superior furmity, or tansey pudding.
This little domestic tragedy caused great and lasting grief to the principal sufferer, and could not but cast a gloom over the whole party.
Of course, they cannot be universally applicable.
Of Jane herself I know of no such definite tale of love to relate.
They shared with the principal tenant the command of an excellent manor, and enjoyed, in this reflected way, some of the consideration usually awarded to landed proprietors.
Heathen mythology celebrated it in the three Fates spinning and measuring out the thread of human life.
Important inventions, such as the applications of steam, gas, and electricity, may find their places in history; but not so the alterations, great as they may be, which have taken place in the appearance of our dining and drawing rooms.
The minuet expired with the last century: but long after it had ceased to be danced publicly it was taught to boys and girls, in order to give them a graceful carriage.
Up to the beginning of the present century, poor women found profitable employment in spinning flax or wool.
This was of the more importance, because, previous to the introduction of clipping, about the year eighteen twenty, it was a difficult and tedious work to make a long coated hunter dry and comfortable, and was often very imperfectly done.
This was the daughter of mr Austen's only sister, mrs Hancock.
He accompanied this friend to the West Indies, as chaplain to his regiment, and there died of yellow fever, to the great concern of his friend and patron, who afterwards declared that, if he had known of the engagement, he would not have permitted him to go out to such a climate.
This was the cradle of her genius.
Well dressed young men of my acquaintance, who had their coat from a London tailor, would always brush their evening suit themselves, rather than entrust it to the carelessness of a rough servant, and to the risks of dirt and grease in the kitchen; for in those days servants' halls were not common in the houses of the clergy and the smaller country gentry.
Some time before they left Steventon, one great affliction came upon the family.
With regard to the mistresses, it is, I believe, generally understood, that at the time to which I refer, a hundred years ago, they took a personal part in the higher branches of cookery, as well as in the concoction of home-made wines, and distilling of herbs for domestic medicines, which are nearly allied to the same art.
The church itself-I speak of it as it then was, before the improvements made by the present rector-
Many years after her death, some circumstances induced her sister Cassandra to break through her habitual reticence, and to speak of it.
Hornpipes, cotillons, and reels, were occasionally danced; but the chief occupation of the evening was the interminable country dance, in which all could join.
Ladies did not disdain to spin the thread of which the household linen was woven. Some ladies liked to wash with their own hands their choice china after breakfast or tea.
One who knew and loved it well very happily expressed its quiet charms, when he wrote
A small writing desk, with a smaller work box, or netting case, was all that each young lady contributed to occupy the table; for the large family work basket, though often produced in the parlour, lived in the closet.
Orders had been given by Buonaparte's government to detain all English travellers, but at the post houses mrs Henry Austen gave the necessary orders herself, and her French was so perfect that she passed everywhere for a native, and her husband escaped under this protection.
But the chief beauty of Steventon consisted in its hedgerows.
Jane was only twelve years old at the time of the earliest of these representations, and not more than fifteen when the last took place.
It was appropriated to solid food, rather than to flowers, fruits, and decorations.
I have been told that Sir Francis Austen, when seven years old, bought on his own account, it must be supposed with his father's permission, a pony for a guinea and a half; and after riding him with great success for two seasons, sold him for a guinea more.
I have heard also of another curious proof of the respect in which this dance was held.
She was, however, an early observer, and it may be reasonably supposed that some of the incidents and feelings which are so vividly painted in the Mansfield Park theatricals are due to her recollections of these entertainments.
To record such little matters would indeed be 'to chronicle small beer.' But, in a slight memoir like this, I may be allowed to note some of those changes in social habits which give a colour to history, but which the historian has the greatest difficulty in recovering.
A young man who expected to have his things packed or unpacked for him by a servant, when he travelled, would have been thought exceptionally fine, or exceptionally lazy.
But a still greater difference would be found in the furniture of the rooms, which would appear to us lamentably scanty.
It may be asserted as a general truth, that less was left to the charge and discretion of servants, and more was done, or superintended, by the masters and mistresses.
It was said of a nobleman, a personal friend of George the third. and a model gentleman of his day, that he would have made the tour of Europe without ever touching the back of his travelling carriage. But perhaps we should be most struck with the total absence of those elegant little articles which now embellish and encumber our drawing room tables.
A pianoforte, or rather a spinnet or harpsichord, was by no means a necessary appendage.
It may be observed that this hand spinning is the most primitive of female accomplishments, and can be traced back to the earliest times. Ballad poetry and fairy tales are full of allusions to it.
The patten now supports each frugal dame, Which from the blue eyed Patty takes the name.
As the first twenty five years, more than half of the brief life of Jane Austen, were spent in the parsonage of Steventon, some description of that place ought to be given.
But the stately minuet still reigned supreme; and every regular ball commenced with it.
Vegetables were less plentiful and less various.
To gallop all the country over, The last night's partner to behold, And humbly hope she caught no cold.
These were the first objects which inspired her young heart with a sense of the beauties of nature.
Nor does life's stream for observation stay; It hurries all too fast to mark their way.
Many country towns had a monthly ball throughout the winter, in some of which the same apartment served for dancing and tea room.
The home at Steventon must have been, for many years, a pleasant and prosperous one.
I believe that Cassandra and Jane sometimes visited them there, and that Jane thus acquired the intimate knowledge of the topography and customs of Bath, which enabled her to write 'Northanger Abbey' long before she resided there herself.
But mortal damsels have long ago discarded the clumsy implement.
The dinners too were more homely, though not less plentiful and savoury; and the bill of fare in one house would not be so like that in another as it is now, for family receipts were held in high estimation.
It is certainly not a picturesque country; it presents no grand or extensive views; but the features are small rather than plain.
It was not so much that they had not servants to do all these things for them, as that they took an interest in such occupations.
It abounded in formal bows and courtesies, with measured paces, forwards, backwards and sideways, and many complicated gyrations.
Every hundred years, and especially a century like the last, marked by an extraordinary advance in wealth, luxury, and refinement of taste, as well as in the mechanical arts which embellish our houses, must produce a great change in their aspect.
The lanes wind along in a natural curve, continually fringed with irregular borders of native turf, and lead to pleasant nooks and corners.
After the death of their own parents, the two young Coopers paid long visits at Steventon.
Another ran about naked, except a pair of drawers about his waist, crying day and night, like a man that Josephus mentions, who cried, 'Woe to Jerusalem!' a little before the destruction of that city.
I met this poor creature several times in the streets, and would have spoken to him, but he would not enter into speech with me or any one else, but held on his dismal cries continually.
It is true a vast many people fled, as I have observed, yet they were chiefly from the west end of the town, and from that we call the heart of the city: that is to say, among the wealthiest of the people, and such people as were unencumbered with trades and business.
One saw his very face, and cried out what a glorious creature he was!
All the old soldiers set up trades here, and abundance of families settled here.
In the two first of them, however, they were entirely mistaken, for we had no droughty season, but in the beginning of the year a hard frost, which lasted from December almost to March, and after that moderate weather, rather warm than hot, with refreshing winds, and, in short, very seasonable weather, and also several very great rains.
I could fill this account with the strange relations such people gave every day of what they had seen; and every one was so positive of their having seen what they pretended to see, that there was no contradicting them without breach of friendship, or being accounted rude and unmannerly on the one hand, and profane and impenetrable on the other.
By this, however, the number of people in the whole may be judged of; and, indeed, I often wondered that, after the prodigious numbers of people that went away at first, there was yet so great a multitude left as it appeared there was.
I looked earnestly every way, and at the very moment that this man directed, but could not see the least appearance of anything; but so positive was this poor man, that he gave the people the vapours in abundance, and sent them away trembling and frighted, till at length few people that knew of it cared to go through that passage, and hardly anybody by night on any account whatever.
Next to these public things were the dreams of old women, or, I should say, the interpretation of old women upon other people's dreams; and these put abundance of people even out of their wits.
I often thought that as Jerusalem was besieged by the romans when the Jews were assembled together to celebrate the Passover-by which means an incredible number of people were surprised there who would otherwise have been in other countries-so the plague entered London when an incredible increase of people had happened occasionally, by the particular circumstances above named.
Some endeavours were used to suppress the printing of such books as terrified the people, and to frighten the dispersers of them, some of whom were taken up; but nothing was done in it, as I am informed, the Government being unwilling to exasperate the people, who were, as I may say, all out of their wits already.
So this poor naked creature cried, 'Oh, the great and the dreadful God!' and said no more, but repeated those words continually, with a voice and countenance full of horror, a swift pace; and nobody could ever find him to stop or rest, or take any sustenance, at least that ever I could hear of.
In the first place, a blazing star or comet appeared for several months before the plague, as there did the year after another, a little before the fire.
These things serve to show how far the people were really overcome with delusions; and as they had a notion of the approach of a visitation, all their predictions ran upon a most dreadful plague, which should lay the whole city, and even the kingdom, waste, and should destroy almost all the nation, both man and beast.
But the city itself began now to be visited too, I mean within the walls; but the number of people there were indeed extremely lessened by so great a multitude having been gone into the country; and even all this month of July they continued to flee, though not in such multitudes as formerly.
So hypochondriac fancies represent Ships, armies, battles in the firmament; Till steady eyes the exhalations solve, And all to its first matter, cloud, resolve.
Another encounter I had in the open day also; and this was in going through a narrow passage from Petty France into Bishopsgate Churchyard, by a row of alms houses.
The people about her seemed disgusted as well as she; and I found there was no persuading them that I did not laugh at them, and that I should be rather mobbed by them than be able to undeceive them.
Here they told us they saw a flaming sword held in a hand coming out of a cloud, with a point hanging directly over the city; there they saw hearses and coffins in the air carrying to be buried; and there again, heaps of dead bodies lying unburied, and the like, just as the imagination of the poor terrified people furnished them with matter to work upon.
Some heard voices warning them to be gone, for that there would be such a plague in London, so that the living would not be able to bury the dead.
I looked as earnestly as the rest, but perhaps not with so much willingness to be imposed upon; and I said, indeed, that I could see nothing but a white cloud, bright on one side by the shining of the sun upon the other part.
One saw one thing, and one another.
To this, as I said before, the astrologers added stories of the conjunctions of planets in a malignant manner and with a mischievous influence, one of which conjunctions was to happen, and did happen, in October, and the other in November; and they filled the people's heads with predictions on these signs of the heavens, intimating that those conjunctions foretold drought, famine, and pestilence.
However, she turned from me, called me profane fellow, and a scoffer; told me that it was a time of God's anger, and dreadful judgements were approaching, and that despisers such as I should wander and perish.
And no wonder, if they who were poring continually at the clouds saw shapes and figures, representations and appearances, which had nothing in them but air, and vapour.
He described the shape, the posture, and the movement of it so exactly that it was the greatest matter of amazement to him in the world that everybody did not see it as well as he.
So I left them; and this appearance passed for as real as the blazing star itself.
She described every part of the figure to the life, showed them the motion and the form, and the poor people came into it so eagerly, and with so much readiness; 'Yes, I see it all plainly,' says one; 'there's the sword as plain as can be.' Another saw the angel.
As this conflux of the people to a youthful and gay Court made a great trade in the city, especially in everything that belonged to fashion and finery, so it drew by consequence a great number of workmen, manufacturers, and the like, being mostly poor people who depended upon their labour.
One day, being at that part of the town on some special business, curiosity led me to observe things more than usually, and indeed I walked a great way where I had no business.
But the woman, turning upon me, looked in my face, and fancied I laughed, in which her imagination deceived her too, for I really did not laugh, but was very seriously reflecting how the poor people were terrified by the force of their own imagination.
I had set the evening wholly-apart to consider seriously about it, and was all alone; for already people had, as it were by a general consent, taken up the custom of not going out of doors after sunset; the reasons I shall have occasion to say more of by and by.
The whole bill also was very low, for the week before the bill was but three hundred forty seven, and the week above mentioned but three hundred forty three.
This was the beginning of May, yet the weather was temperate, variable, and cool enough, and people had still some hopes.
Besides this, it was observed with great uneasiness by the people that the weekly bills in general increased very much during these weeks, although it was at a time of the year when usually the bills are very moderate.
Till this week the city continued free, there having never any died, except that one Frenchman whom I mentioned before, within the whole ninety seven parishes.
This they did; and finding evident tokens of the sickness upon both the bodies that were dead, they gave their opinions publicly that they died of the plague.
But such things as these were gathered from the letters of merchants and others who corresponded abroad, and from them was handed about by word of mouth only; so that things did not spread instantly over the whole nation, as they do now.
For example:--
Parishes infected, one.
So that now all our extenuations abated, and it was no more to be concealed; nay, it quickly appeared that the infection had spread itself beyond all hopes of abatement.
Whereupon it was given in to the parish clerk, and he also returned them to the Hall; and it was printed in the weekly bill of mortality in the usual manner, thus-
It came very warmly into my mind one morning, as I was musing on this particular thing, that as nothing attended us without the direction or permission of Divine Power, so these disappointments must have something in them extraordinary; and I ought to consider whether it did not evidently point out, or intimate to me, that it was the will of Heaven I should not go.
The first consideration was of great moment to me; my trade was a saddler, and as my dealings were chiefly not by a shop or chance trade, but among the merchants trading to the English colonies in America, so my effects lay very much in the hands of such.
Hence it was that this rumour died off again, and people began to forget it as a thing we were very little concerned in, and that we hoped was not true; till the latter end of November or the beginning of december sixteen sixty four when two men, said to be Frenchmen, died of the plague in Long Acre, or rather at the upper end of Drury Lane.
The next bill was from the twenty third of May to the thirtieth, when the number of the plague was seventeen.
The last was esteemed a pretty high bill; but after this we found the bills successively increasing as follows:--
Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the arrow that flieth by day; nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness; nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday.
These thoughts quite turned my resolutions again, and when I came to discourse with my brother again I told him that I inclined to stay and take my lot in that station in which God had placed me, and that it seemed to be made more especially my duty, on the account of what I have said.
being observations or memorials of the most remarkable occurrences, as well public as private, which happened in London during the last great visitation in sixteen sixty five.
Surely He shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence.
It mattered not from whence it came; but all agreed it was come into Holland again.
I went home that evening greatly oppressed in my mind, irresolute, and not knowing what to do.
Once I resolved to travel on foot with one servant, and, as many did, lie at no inn, but carry a soldier's tent with us, and so lie in the fields, the weather being very warm, and no danger from taking cold.
This lay close to me, and my mind seemed more and more encouraged to stay than ever, and supported with a secret satisfaction that I should be kept.
This was a very terrible and melancholy thing to see, and as it was a sight which I could not but look on from morning to night (for indeed there was nothing else of moment to be seen), it filled me with very serious thoughts of the misery that was coming upon the city, and the unhappy condition of those that would be left in it.
It was, however, upon inquiry found that this Frenchman who died in Bearbinder Lane was one who, having lived in Long Acre, near the infected houses, had removed for fear of the distemper, not knowing that he was already infected.
But it seems that the Government had a true account of it, and several councils were held about ways to prevent its coming over; but all was kept very private.
By Daniel Defoe
I desired him to let me consider of it but till the next day, and I would resolve: and as I had already prepared everything as well as I could as to MY business, and whom to entrust my affairs with, I had little to do but to resolve.
The apprehensions of its being the infection went also quite away with my illness, and I went about my business as usual.
Then he touched the chords of his lyre and chanted these words:
When they saw Orpheus they set up a shout of derision. "See," they cried, "the wretched singer who mocks at women and will have no bride but the dead.
'tis but a short delay, and late or soon we all hasten towards one goal.
"Great lords of the world below the earth, to which all we mortals must one day come, grant me to tell a simple tale and declare unto you the truth.
In silence Orpheus led on, till the goal was close at hand and the welcoming light of the upper air began to penetrate the darkness.
A viper's sting has robbed her of the years that were her due.
I should have borne my loss, indeed I tried to bear it, but I was overcome by Love, a god well known in the world above, and I think not without honor in your kingdom, unless the story of Proserpina's theft be a lying tale.
But the shade of the dead singer went down to Hades, and found entrance at last.
To the sound of his lyre the Argo had floated down to the sea, and he played so sweetly when they passed the rocks of the Sirens that the dreadful monsters sang their most alluring strains in vain.
With these words they began to throw wands and stones at him, but even the lifeless objects were softened by the music, and fell harmlessly to the ground.
Only the pitiless revelers knew no remorse.
For this was one of the feasts of Bacchus, and the women were celebrating his rites, wandering over the mountains with dance and revel.
Orpheus stretched out his arms and tried to seize her, but he only clasped the empty air.
Not to look upon the blackness of Tartarus have I come hither, nor yet to bind in chains the snaky heads on Cerberus.
But at their marriage the omens were not favorable. Hymen, the marriage god, came to it with a gloomy countenance and the wedding torches smoked and would not give forth a cheerful flame.
She too, when she shall have lived her allotted term of years, will surely come under your sway.
He would go down to the Lower World and seek her among the dead, and try whether any prayer or persuasion could move Pluto to restore his beloved.
A steep path led upward from the realm of darkness, and the way was hard to find through the gloom.
Orpheus fell lifeless to the ground.
All our lives are forfeit to you.
Jason had persuaded Orpheus to accompany the Argonauts when they went to fetch back the golden fleece, for he knew that the perils of the way would be lightened by song.
Apollo himself had given him his golden harp, and on it he played music of such wondrous power and beauty that rocks, trees and beasts would follow to hear him.
Thus Orpheus and Eurydice were re united, and won in death the bliss that was denied them in life.
Now at last the shots took effect, and in their fury the women fell upon him, dealing blow on blow.
One day he sat down to rest on a grassy hill in the sunshine, and played and sang to beguile his sorrow.
Seven days he sat on the further bank without food or drink, nourished by his tears and grief.
This is our last home, yours is the sole enduring rule over mankind.
Come, let us kill him, and show that no man shall despise us unpunished."
It is my wife I seek.
He could not believe that he had lost her for ever, but prayed day and night without ceasing to the gods above to restore her to him.
Orpheus wedded the fair nymph Eurydice, whom he loved dearly, and who returned his love.
For three years he wandered among the mountains of Thrace, finding his only consolation in the music of his lyre, for he shunned all men and women and would have no bride after Eurydice.
Hither all our footsteps tend.
I beseech you, by the realms of the dead, by mighty Chaos and the silence of your vast kingdom, revoke the untimely doom of Eurydice.
Dimly he saw her, but for the last time, for a power she could not resist drew her back.
Never yet had such sweet strains been heard in the world of gloom.
Thus he prayed and touched his harp in tune with his words.
Then a sudden fear struck his heart.
"Take her," says Pluto, "and lead her back to the light.
Else the boon we grant you will be but vain."
They seized the singer's head and threw it with his lyre into the river Hebrus.
Indeed the happiness of Orpheus and Eurydice was to be but short-lived.
This was the road by which Hercules descended when he went to carry off Cerberus, the three headed dog that guards the threshold of Pluto. Undaunted by the terrors of the place, Orpheus passed through this gate and down a dark and dismal road to the kingdom of the dead.
But if the Fates refuse a husband's prayers, I am resolved never to return hence.
When they would not listen, he resolved to make one last effort to win her back.
There it floated down stream and, strange to tell, the chords gave forth a lament, and the lifeless tongue uttered words.
But she must follow you at a distance, nor must you once turn round to look upon her till you have passed beyond these realms.
Here he came in safety through the crowd of ghosts and phantoms, and stood at last before the throne of Pluto and Proserpina.
Till then, I implore you, let her be mine.
Suddenly a great noise was heard of laughter and shouting and merry making.
As he played, the coolness of shady branches seemed all about him, and looking up he found himself in the midst of a wood.
Then, for the first time, tears moistened the cheeks of the Furies, and even the king and queen of the dead were moved to pity. They summoned Eurydice, and she came, yet halting from her recent wound.
But he was not to die unwept.
Secured in this manner the gods left him.
In all the world there was only one who pitied him.
Thor proposed to return to Asgard, to bring a chain with which to bind the prisoner; but Odin assured him that he had no need to take such a journey.
One by one they turned their faces from him; for, in looking at him, they seemed to see over again the death of Baldur the Beloved.
But his punishment did not end here.
When the cup was full, she was obliged to turn away to empty it, and the deadly drops fell again on Loki's face.
After the death of Baldur, Loki never again ventured to intrude himself into the presence of the gods.
Here his wife, Siguna, and his two sons, Ali and Nari, came to live with him.
Siguna was a kind woman, far too good and kind for Loki.
One of these, higher than the rest, had midway four projecting stones, and to these the gods resolved to bind Loki so that he should never again be able to torment the inhabitants of Manheim or Asgard by his evil doings.
Then he tried to escape the watchful eye by disguising himself under various shapes.
They themselves divided into two bands.
A rope was made of the dead wolves' sinews, and as soon as it touched Loki's body it turned into bands of iron and bound him immovably to the rock.
"Loki," he said, "has already forged for himself a chain stronger than any you can make.
While we have been occupied in catching him, his two sons, Ali and Nari, transformed into wolves by their evil passions, have fought with and destroyed each other.
"The world is large, and I am very clever," said Loki to himself, as he turned his back upon Asgard, and wandered out into Manheim; "there is no end to the thick woods, and no measure for the deep waters; neither is there any possibility of counting the various forms under which I shall disguise myself.
He took care that his house should have four doors in it, that he might look out on every side and catch the first glimpse of the gods when they came, as he knew they would come, to take him away.
With their sinews we must make a chain to bind their father, and from that he can never escape."
Loki swam backwards and forwards between them.
The serpent could never move away afterwards; but every moment a burning drop from his tongue fell down on Loki's shuddering face.
So will he lie bound till the Twilight of the Gods be here.
He ordered his sons to make a new net, and to cast it into the water, and drag out whatever living thing they could find there.
Thor waded down the river to the waterfall; the other gods stood in a group below.
The sight of them coming all together-beautiful, and noble, and free-pierced Loki with a pang that was worse than death.
He rose without daring to look again, threw his net on a fire that burned on the floor, and, rushing to the side of the little river, he turned himself into a salmon, swam down to the deepest, stillest pool at the bottom, and hid himself between two stones.
This last seemed the easiest way of escape, and with the greatest speed he attempted it.
The eyes of the two met and fixed each other.
A snake, whose fangs dropped poison, glided to the top of the rock and leaned his head over to peer at Loki.
Tired at last of seeking what he could nowhere find, Loki built himself a house near a narrow, glittering river which, lower down flashed from a high rock into the sea below.
He shuddered and shrank from them, and the whole earth trembled.
His kind wife ever afterwards stood beside him and held a cup over his head to catch the poison.
You were told that there were high rocks looking over the sea near Loki's house.
First he thought he would dart out into the sea, and then that he would spring over the net back again into the river.
It was done as he desired.
And all the while Smoke meowed piteously.
At any other time the dog would have been upon him in an instant, barking and leaping to the shoulder.
Some force entered his being that shook him as the tempest shakes a leaf, and close against his eyes-clean level with his face-he found himself staring into the wreck of a vast dark Countenance, a countenance that was terrible even in its ruin.
For ruined it was, and terrible it was, and the mark of spiritual evil was branded everywhere upon its broken features.
For just as he understood the spiritual alchemy that can transmute evil forces by raising them into higher channels, so he knew from long study the occult use of sound, and its direct effect upon the plastic region wherein the powers of spiritual evil work their fell purposes.
He began to lose memory-memory of his identity, of where he was, of what he ought to do.
And with the return of the consciousness of his own identity john Silence was restored to the full control of his own will power.
The glacial atmosphere closed round him with the cold of death, and a great rushing sound swept by overhead as though the ceiling had lifted to a great height.
The candle flickered and went out.
Unholy thoughts began to crowd into his brain, sinister suggestions of evil presented themselves seductively.
And Smoke all the while meowed piteously by the window as though trying to draw the attack upon himself.
Then, by slow degrees, the dark and dreadful countenance faded, the glamour passed from his soul, the normal proportions returned to walls and ceiling, the forms melted back into the fog, and the whirl of rushing shadow cats disappeared whence they came.
It all seemed so rapid and uncalculated after that-the events that took place in this little modern room at the top of Putney Hill between midnight and sunrise-that dr Silence was hardly able to follow and remember it all.
john Silence understood.
"Flame, old man! come!"
He marched along, picking his way delicately, but with a stately dignity that suggested his ancestry with the majesty of Egypt.
There came a sound in the chimney behind him like wind booming and tearing its way down.
He knew-provided he was not first robbed of self control-how vicariously to absorb these evil radiations into himself and change them magically into his own good purposes.
And then they advanced together towards the corner where the dog was.
Yet the struggle was severe, and in spite of the freezing chill of the air, the perspiration poured down his face.
And even now he got up, though heavily and awkwardly, to his feet.
He felt lost, shelterless in the depths of his soul.
And the grunt and the thumping touched the depth of affection in the man's heart, and gave him some inkling of what agonies the dumb creature had suffered.
Still uttering his sharp high purrings he marched up to his master and rubbed vigorously against his legs.
The doctor lit the candle and brought it over.
His eyes no longer glared; they shone steadily before him, they radiated, not excitement, but knowledge.
And john Silence, the soul with the good, unselfish motive, held his own against the dark discarnate woman whose motive was pure evil, and whose soul was on the side of the Dark Powers.
Flame began suddenly uttering sounds of pleasure, that "something" between a growl and a grunt that dogs make upon being restored to their master's confidence.
Smoke trotted close at his side, trying his very best to guide him.
And power and confidence came with them.
And, since his motive was pure and his soul fearless, they could not work him harm.
He had stepped into the stream of forces awakened by Pender and he knew that he must withstand them to the end or come to a conclusion that it was not good for a man to come to.
He was caught momentarily in the same vortex that had sought to lure the cat to destruction through its delight, and threatened utterly to overwhelm the dog through its terror.
He was conscious, of course, of effort, and yet it seemed no superhuman one, for he had recognised the character of his opponent's power, and he called upon the good within him to meet and overcome it.
He heard the door shut.
And, after himself, the first to recognise it was the old dog lying in his corner.
Yet still he held out and resisted while the climax of the fight came nearer and nearer....
It came about with such uncanny swiftness and terror; the light was so uncertain; the movements of the black cat so difficult to follow on the dark carpet, and the doctor himself so weary and taken by surprise-that he found it almost impossible to observe accurately, or to recall afterwards precisely what it was he had seen or in what order the incidents had taken place.
It was glamour, of course, he realised afterwards, the strong glamour thrown upon his imagination by some powerful personality behind the veil; but at the time he was not sufficiently aware of this and, as with all true glamour, was unable to grasp where the true ended and the false began.
Harmony was restored first of all to his own soul, and thence to the room and all its occupants.
Then john Silence began to understand.
At first he was only aware that the dog was repeating his short dangerous bark from time to time, snapping viciously at the empty air, a foot or so from the ground.
He was in a much larger space.
The windows rattled.
For several minutes he continued to utter these words, until at length the growing volume dominated the whole room and mastered the manifestation of all that opposed it.
He started to run, wagging his tail more briskly.
In a deep, modulated voice he began to utter certain rhythmical sounds that slowly rolled through the air like a rising sea, filling the room with powerful vibratory activities that whelmed all irregularities of lesser vibrations in its own swelling tone.
Its tail and eyes responded to the sound of its name, but it was evidently very weak and overcome.
He turned his head towards the corner where the collie still lay, thumping his tail feebly and pathetically.
And directly afterwards the doctor's own distress became intolerably acute.
Something from the region of utter cold was upon him.
They did not at first come readily as was their habit, for under the spell of glamour they had already been diabolically lulled into inactivity, but come they eventually did, rising out of the inner spiritual nature he had learned with so much time and pain to awaken to life.
He had made a half movement forward to come to the rescue when a veil that was denser than mere fog seemed to drop down over the scene, draping room, walls, animals and fire in a mist of darkness and folding also about his own mind.
He stroked the dear body, feeling it over for bruises or broken bones, but finding none.
The dimensions of the place altered and shifted.
He saw the collie lying on its side against the wall; it was utterly exhausted, and foam still hung about its jaws.
Once, indeed, he sprang upwards and forwards, working furiously with teeth and paws, and with a noise like wolves fighting, but only to dash back the next minute against the wall behind him.
And then quite suddenly, through the confused mists about him, there slowly rose up the Personality that had been all the time directing the battle.
But dr Silence felt intuitively that something disastrous had happened, and his heart was wrung.
Ice seemed to settle about his heart, and his mind trembled.
Then, after lying still for a bit, he rose to a crouching position as though to spring again, snarling horribly and making short half circles with lowered head.
Smoke continued to rub against its cheek and nose and eyes, sometimes even standing on its body and kneading into the thick yellow hair.
The very foundations of his strength were shaken.
Then it was that the rush of the whole dreadful business seemed to turn aside from the dog and direct itself upon his own person.
Flame replied from time to time by little licks of the tongue, most of them curiously misdirected.
Smoke was advancing across the carpet.
Next, from the shadows by the window, a somewhat shrill purring announced the restoration of the cat to its normal state.
He made certain sigils, gestures and movements at the same time.
Nor could he make out at the time why the size of the room seemed to have altered, grown much larger, and why it extended away behind him where ordinarily the wall should have been.
The deeps within were too troubled for healing power to come out of them.
It was like the reflections from a score of mirrors placed round the walls at different angles.
By ceasing to resist, and allowing the deadly stream to pour into him unopposed, he used the very power supplied by his adversary and thus enormously increased his own.
The collie had made another spring and fallen back with a crash into the corner, where he made noise enough in his savage rage to waken the dead before he fell to whining and then finally lay still.
Far away it sounded.
He was no shadow cat, but real and full of his usual and perfect self possession.
His will seemed paralysed.
Clearly he was anxious to make amends for the mischief to which he had unwittingly lent himself owing to his subtle and electric constitution.
The inner forces stirred and trembled in response to his call.
It was all so confused and confusing, as though the little room he knew had become merged and transformed into the dimensions of quite another chamber, that came to him, with its host of cats and its strange distances, in a sort of vision.
dr Silence heard the thumping of the collie's tail against the floor.
But it was useless.
Smoke went first and put his nose gently against his friend's muzzle, purring while he rubbed, and uttering little soft sounds of affection in his throat.
Eyes, face and hair rose level with his own, and for a space of time he never could properly measure, or determine, these two, a man and a woman, looked straight into each other's visages and down into each other's hearts.
He bent down and stroked the creature's living fur, noting the line of bright blue sparks that followed the motion of his hand down its back.
He seemed very pleased with himself, and smiled with an expression of supreme innocence.
Other forms moved silently across the field of vision, forms that he recognised from previous experiments, and welcomed not.
It was the climax that touched the depth of power within him and began to restore him slowly to his own.
"mr Brand said he would be here for a late dinner.
She pressed the corresponding button, and, her hand shaking so much that she could scarcely hold the receiver to her ear, she listened.
So the girl went downstairs once more, with a quiet little ache at her heart that refused to be still.
"She must be very quiet all day."
Felsenburgh has done it.
Can you hear?"
Then, even as she turned away, the bell rang sharply, and a white label flashed into sight.--WHITEHALL.
A couple of hours later, as Mabel went upstairs once more, she met mr Phillips coming down.
"Don't trouble about me, my dear," she said.
"Oh, yes."
There was silence for a moment.
The secretary, who breakfasted with her in the parlour looking on to the garden, had appeared strangely excited.
He would be gone three days, he said.
"The best has happened.
" ... Yes, you must come.
The old lady, too, seemed excited.
"Who is there?"
Tell no one.
But there was nothing that alarmed her.
She, too, herself would cease one day, let her see to it that the tone was pure and lovely.
She went at last, hopelessly, to the telephone, and looked at it.
"She wished to know whether mr Oliver would be back to night."
We are communicating with the Press. Come up here to me at once.
Quick."
"If the volor is not late.
"Don't excite yourself, mother.
"And is there any other news?"
He will reach London at nineteen."
"There are rumours," he said.
Mabel passed an afternoon of considerable agitation.
"He will, will he not?
Twenty o'clock came, but there was no sign of Oliver.
Very well.
Shall I leave her?"
She asked the girl to read to her sometimes, and listened unblenching to whatever was offered her; she attended in the kitchen daily, organised varieties of food, and appeared interested in all that concerned her son.
"Yes, yes."
"You must forgive me, mrs Brand," he said.
"I shall do very well now. He will be back to dinner, will he not?"
Now, mother, are you ready for breakfast?"
"She is a little better, I think," said Mabel.
"mr Brand wired to me an hour ago."
"Mother is ill.
She was not offended, for she trusted her husband too well; but she went on into the sick room with her heart beating.
"It is nothing, my dear," said the old lady tremulously; and she added the description of a symptom or two.
"Alone here."
"How ill?"
It was certain that something had happened.
"Yes?
The doctor has seen her."
Oliver will be back to night."
"Well, my dear?" she asked.
Can you hear?"
He seemed moved at something, and Mabel looked at him in astonishment.
It was a peaceful Gospel; at least, it became peaceful as soon as the end had come.
Now listen.
He compressed his lips.
"Come then at once.
He had often been later than this: he might have missed the volor he meant to catch; the Convention might have been prolonged; he might be exhausted, and think it better to sleep in Paris after all, and have forgotten to wire. He might even have wired to mr Phillips, and the secretary have forgotten to pass on the message.
"There is no need to telegraph for mr Brand?"
"mrs Brand sent for me," he said.
"It is not Eastern news?" she asked.
You have not heard?"
In half an hour the way will be stopped."
Felsenburgh will be there."
As she came in she took up the evening paper, but there was no news there except to the effect that the Convention would close that afternoon.
Then Oliver was forward again, pointing and crying out, for she could see his gestures; and she sank back quickly, the blood racing through her old veins, and her heart hammering at the base of her throat.
The kingdom of God, it was said, lay within the human heart, and the greatest of all graces was Charity.
It was through this alone that the false unity of the Church with its fantastic spiritual fraternity could be counteracted.
The second part was to be a panegyric of Braithwaite, treating him as the Precursor of a movement that even now had begun.
What was that?
Fifty years ago, the speaker said, poverty was still a disgrace, now it was so no longer.
Ah! he was working up now to his panegyric!
Thus he had preluded his speech on the Poor Law question, pointing to the true charity that existed among Masons apart from religious motive, and appealing to the famous benefactions on the Continent; and in the enthusiasm of the Bill's success the Order had received a great accession of members.
Old mrs Brand was in her best to day, and looked out with considerable excitement at the huge throng gathered to hear her son speak.
There was a sharp crack, and the tiny gesticulating figure staggered back a step.
Then there came a retrospect, comparing the old state of England with the present.
It was an inspiriting sight, this bright June morning, to see the crowds gathering round Braithwaite's statue.
A platform was erected round the bronze statue at such a height that the statesman appeared to be one of the speakers, though at a slightly higher elevation, and this platform was hung with roses, surmounted by a sounding board, and set with a chair and table.
"My dear, my dear, what is it?" she sobbed.
They had a religious ring; the unintelligent Christian could sing them without a qualm; yet their sense was plain enough-the old human creed that man was all.
"I suppose so.
It was time that something happened.
It was as if archers disputed as to the results of cordite.
"Yes, Oliver?"
"There was a rosary on him; and then he just had time to call on his God."
"Are you too tired to talk, my dear?"
He knew this tender trait in her.
"You saw that too, then....
"No, no, my dear; you're excited and tired.
"They don't understand what a glorious thing it all is Humanity, Life, Truth at last, and the death of Folly!
Benninschein sold them simultaneously to East and West; then he died, luckily for him."
"He was killed-trampled and strangled instantly," said Oliver.
"The effect?" he said.
"Of course she looks back a little."
He knew he was feverish and irritable, and made a great effort to drive it down.
"Isn't that very hopeful?"
By the way ..."
Catholic assailant....
"Nothing more.
It's just a little sentiment....
"What do you think will be the effect?"
Besides, the troops don't disperse."
"It can be nothing but good.
Mabel, do you think she is falling back?"
"You poor dear!" she said.
The huge electric placards over London had winked out the facts in Esperanto as Oliver stepped into the train at twilight.
"Did you notice anything just now, sweetheart-when I said that about Jesus Christ?"
"Well?"
She looked at him with kindling eyes.
"I did what I could: you saw me.
But that was all.
What is it?"
Well, I do not think I shall be again.
These new Benninschein explosives will make certain of that."
But haven't I told them a hundred times?"
Oh, Oliver!"
"Not much.
He was well dressed, though."
He opened his eyes.
"Well?"
"Europe is arming as fast as possible.
People won't forget it."
Oliver leaned back a little wearily and closed his eyes; his arm still throbbed intolerably.
Mabel sat up briskly.
Oh! there was some passion and loyalty left in England!
Oliver stirred presently.
"She stopped knitting for a moment," said the girl.
He nodded.
She bent forward and kissed him suddenly.
Oliver smiled at her.
"He must have come ready, for his repeater was found loaded.
Mabel leaned forward---
Then she broke off and sat back.
It is in the nick of time, too, just at the crisis.
He said nothing; but she could see what she loved to see, that response to her own heart; and so they sat in silence while the sky darkened yet more, and the click of the writer in the next room told them that the world was alive and that they had a share in its affairs.
"Absolutely.
But if not---"
They say Felsenburgh's running the whole thing now.
"But you don't think-it would be too awful!"
Besides, Christ! what do I care?
"But is it absolutely certain that the East has got them?"
I don't want to exaggerate; it is only a scratch-but it was so deliberate, and-and so dramatic.
After all, she was brought up a Catholic."
"But he must have meant to do it anyhow," continued Oliver.
"I said that Braithwaite had done more for the world by one speech than Jesus and all His saints put together." He was aware that the knitting needles stopped for a second; then they went on again as before.
"Are you in pain?"
It was true that he had been wounded by a fanatic, but he was not sorry to bear pain in such a cause, and it was obvious that the sympathy of England was with him.
"It would have been more perfect if they had not," she said.
He was pleased, too, that he honestly had done his best to save the man. Even in that moment of sudden and acute pain he had cried out for a fair trial; but he had been too late.
"And nothing more is known?"
"There is no more.
But it is just as certain as it can be that this is the crisis.
I have been afraid sometimes that we were losing all our spirit, and that the old Tories were partly right when they prophesied what Communism would do.
She can't get it out of her head, even after fifty years.
But he was very happy at heart.
Well, watch her, won't you?...
"Well; we have shown that we can shed our blood too.
"If not, there will be a catastrophe such as never has been even imagined.
"I called out to them, mother, but they wouldn't hear me."
"If they would not be such heavy fools: they don't understand; they don't understand."
"He was a Catholic," explained the drawn faced Oliver.
But after this---"
I must go."
"My arm must get well.
She loved to see him like this, his confident, flushed face, the enthusiasm in his blue eyes; and the knowledge of his pain pricked her feeling with passion.
"Your arm, my dear?"
Not many speeches were made on the subject; it had been found inadvisable.
Military experts prophesied extravagantly, contradicting one another on vital points; the whole procedure of war was a matter of theory; there were no precedents with which to compare it.
"Why did he shoot just then?" she asked.
The Empire is sending him everywhere- Tobolsk, Benares, Yakutsk-everywhere; and he's been to Australia."
But imagination simply refused to speak.
Indignation of the country....
There's no doubt that the Sufis are winning; but for how long is another question.
"Yes?"
e r s
He also issues licenses in case hunters have neglected to secure them before coming.
They are using the largest caliber sporting guns,--murderous looking things.
While they were gone we helped Elizabeth to dress.
I could bear it no longer and have come to see what has become of him.
I looked back, expecting to see Elizabeth all smiles, but if you will believe me the foolish girl was sobbing as if her heart was broken.
"But, darlint," said mrs O'Shaughnessy, "supposin' it's married your man is?"
ELIZABETH'S ROMANCE
I kept shutting my eyes, trying not to see the terrifying places, and opening them again to see the beauty spread everywhere, until mr Stewart said, "It must make you nervous to ride over mountain roads.
I don't think I shall be able to tell you of any great exploits I make with the gun.
Well, we felt powerfully reduced in numbers, but about three o'clock that afternoon we came upon mr Struble and mr Haynes waiting beside the road for us.
A splendid fellow he was, manly strength and grace showing in every line.
They were going to start immediately after dinner, on horseback, for the county seat, to be married.
Such jolting and sliding!
They had come to pilot us into camp, for there would be no road soon.
It had been decided to go as far as we could with the wagons and then set camp; from there the hunters would ride horseback as far up as they could and then climb.
We call the valley Paradise Valley because it is the horses' paradise.
Several miles were passed when we came in sight of a beautiful cabin, half hidden in a grove of pines beyond the river.
Then too the whole country is filled with those tiny little strawberries.
I should never have told you what I have, only I think I owe it to you, and it was easier because of the Holts.
And the stately pines kept whispering and murmuring; it almost seemed as if they were chiding the quaking aspens for being frivolous.
mrs O'Shaughnessy drew her head down upon her shoulder and was trying to quiet her.
mr Struble drove for mrs O'Shaughnessy, and I could hear her imploring all the saints to preserve us from instant death.
That is, all except mr Harkrudder, the picture man.
Back of us rises a big pine clad mountain; our tents are set under some big trees, on a small plateau, and right below us is a valley in which grass grows knee high and little streams come from every way.
If he is dead, may I stay on with one of you and perhaps get a school?
He is so slight that I don't see how he will stand the hard climbing, not to mention carrying the heavy gun.
"Eighteen months ago father died,--gently went to sleep.
She and her Wallace made a fine couple as they rode away in the golden September afternoon.
After we had eaten, Elizabeth selected a few things from her trunk, and mr Stewart and mr White drove the buckboard across the river to leave the trunk in its new home.
I could take care of father and teach also.
Staying on the wagon occupied all my attention for a while.
mr Stewart is the queerest man: instead of letting me enjoy the tableau, he solemnly drove on, saying he would not want any one gawking at him if he were the happy man.
mr Stewart said we might as well "noon" as soon as we came to a good place, and then he would ride across and see mr White.
If he is alive he is honorable."
We had just got the coffee boiling when the lovers came up, Elizabeth in the saddle, "learning to ride," and he walking beside her holding her hand.
We have to gather all day to get as much as we can eat, but they are delicious.
Soon we came to the crossing on Green River.
Although I seldom heard from Wallace, his letters were well worth waiting for, and I knew he was doing well.
The mountains on one side were crested; great crags and piles of rock crowned them as far as we could see; timber grew only about halfway up.
mrs O'Shaughnessy said, "Tut, tut, 'tis nothing at all we've done. 'tis a comfort you've been, hasn't she, mrs Stewart?"
CONEY,--
Altogether this is one of the most delightful places imaginable.
The men are not very anxious to begin hunting.
After a while I got on to the wagon with mr Stewart and told him Elizabeth's story so that he could inquire about the man.
Trout scurry up stream whenever we go near.
I heard one of them say he would be glad when some one killed a bear, as he had heard they were fine eating, having strata of fat alternating with strata of lean.
Happiness had taken a new clutch upon my heart.
How happy they were!
Yesterday we had pie made of wild currants; there are a powerful lot of them here.
mr Struble is the big man of the party; he is tall and strong and we find him very pleasant company. Then there is dr Teschall; he is a quiet fellow with an unexpected smile.
Just as we rounded the hill a horseman came toward us.
I could heartily agree; and Elizabeth went on, "The way I have been received and the way we all treated mrs Holt will be the greatest help to me in becoming what I hope to become, a real Westerner.
"I just didn't have the courage to.
The students are jolly, likable fellows, but they can talk of nothing but strata and formation.
We are in the last camp, right on the hunting ground, in the "midst of the fray." We have said good bye to dear Elizabeth, and I must tell you about her because she really comes first.
I fired one that mr Stewart carries, and it almost kicked my shoulder off.
I felt that it wouldn't be right.
I have written him three times and have had no word.
He is just the kind, quiet good mon that he has always been since I have known him.
Just now we have a huge camp fire around which we sit in the evening, telling stories, singing, and eating nuts of the pinon pine.
The sky was clear blue, with a few fleecy clouds drifting lazily past.
We camped in a bunch, and we have camp stoves so that in case of rain or snow we can stay indoors.
I begged to get off and walk; but as the whole way was carpeted by strawberry vines and there were late berries to tempt me to loiter, I had to stay on the wagon.
Dear Elizabeth, she was glad to get away, I suspect!
Poor father couldn't speak, but his eyes told me how grateful he was to stay.
I think you must be tired of this letter, so I am going to say good night, my friend.
He rode down to meet us, to inspect our license and to tell us about our privileges and our duties as good woodsmen.
It is cool up here, but going back across the desert it will be warm for a while yet.
mr Struble has already killed a fine "spike" elk for camp eating.
mrs O'Shaughnessy had refused to get a license when we did.
He looks to be about forty years old, but whoops and laughs like he was about ten.
"Wallace may have changed his mind about me, but he would not marry without telling me.
Still, when they see elk every day it is a great temptation to try a shot.
Years ago, before I was through school, I was to have been married; but I lost my mother just then and was left the care of my paralytic father.
Anyway, he couldn't urge Chub fast enough to prevent my seeing and hearing what I've told you. Besides that, I saw that Elizabeth's hat was on awry, her hair in disorder, and her eyes red.
I am so glad we met them."
The rest of us were mighty near as foolish as they.
I waited six months and then wrote to Wallace, but received no reply.
To begin with, the morning we left the Holts, Elizabeth suggested that we three women ride in the buckboard, so I seated myself on a roll of bedding in the back part.
I want to live here always."
I don't know what that is, but if it is a fossil he won't get it, for the soil is too deep.
I know she would not shoot one of those big guns for a dozen elk; besides that, she is very tender hearted and will never harm anything herself, although she likes to join our hunts.
They went to work setting up tents and unloading wagons with a hearty good will.
We have a beautiful place: it is well sheltered; there is plenty of wood, water, and feed; and, looking eastward down the valley, snow covered, crag topped mountains delight the eye.
mr Haynes is a quiet fellow, just interested in hunting.
Just beyond the ford we could see the game warden's cabin, with the stars and stripes fluttering gayly in the fresh morning breeze.
Such a way as we came over!
We are camped just on the edge of the pines.
It was disappointing after she had been so careful to look nicely.
I find I can't write to you as often as I at first intended; but I've a chance to day, so I will not let it pass unused.
We were very comfortably situated, and in time became really happy.
The road was narrow against the hillside and he had to ride quite close, so I saw his handsome face plainly.
We had our little home and father had his pension, and I was able to get a small school near us.
CAMP CLOUDCREST, september twelfth nineteen fourteen.
She said she was not going to hunt; she told us we could give her a small piece of "ilk" and that would do; so we were rather surprised when she purchased two licenses, one a special, which would entitle her to a bull elk.
He is so reserved that I felt that he was kind of out of place among the rest until I caught his cordial smile.
The shadows are mellow, like the colors in an old picture-greenish amber light and a blue gray sky. Far ahead of us we could see the red rim rock of a mountain above timber line.
We were off before it was more than light enough for us to see the trail.
He tried to rise, but others coming leaped over him and knocked him down.
We all felt refreshed; so we started on the trail of those that got away.
It slid swiftly, and I could plainly hear the rattle of stones falling against stones, until with a muffled roar the whole hillside fell into the stream.
Though I don't admire them, they are considered valuable; however, his elk was a cow, and they don't have as nice teeth as do bulls.
seven
Instantly mr Haynes's gun flew to his shoulder and a deafening report jarred our ears.
Our tent is as comfortable as can be.
He had seen the game warden from whom she had procured her license, and so hunted up our camp.
The first rays of the sun turned the jagged peaks into golden points of a crown.
THE HUNT
I have been neglecting you shamefully, I think.
I haven't one thing.
They had heard our shot, and came across to see what luck.
CONEY,--
I was so dizzy I could scarcely move, but I got down to where the others were excitedly admiring the two dead elk that they said were the victims of mrs O'Shaughnessy's gun.
As he got up from supper the first night he was with us, he said, "Mary Ellen, I have a real treat and surprise for you.
Now that it is snowing, we sit around the stoves, and we should have fine times if Professor Glenholdt could have a chance to talk; but we have to listen to "Run, Nigger, Run" and "The Old Gray Hoss Come A tearin' Out The Wilderness." I'll sing them to you when I come to Denver.
mr Murry is an old time acquaintance of mrs O'Shaughnessy's.
The sun was well up when we reached the little park where we picketed our horses.
I thought the big tree must have fallen. In the lulls of the storm I could hear the men's voices, high and excited.
Some more shots, and those behind turned and went back the way they had come.
We had gone to bed, but I couldn't remain there; so I sat on the wagon seat with Jerrine beside me. Something struck the guy ropes of the tent, and I was so frightened I was too weak to cry out.
The elk will be here long before the men, since the men have no horses; so let's hurry and get placed along the only place they can get out.
mrs O'Shaughnessy and mr Struble came out of the woods just then.
At the same instant one of the quaking asp groves began to move slowly.
We were all on one side, and mr Haynes said to me, "Rest your gun on that rock and aim at the first rib back of the shoulder.
CAMP CLOUDCREST, october sixth nineteen fourteen.
We had been cautioned not to talk, but neither mrs O'Shaughnessy nor I wanted to.
We have found it best not to remove the skin, but the elk have to be quartered so as to load them on to a horse.
We had to use care when we got into the timber; there were marshy places which tried us sorely, and windfall so thick that we could hardly get through.
In their places stood silvery patches against the red background of the cliffs.
Every one took it good naturedly, but he kept doling the doleful until little by little the circle thinned.
I shut them a moment, but when I looked the grove was moving faster.
At the report of the gun two huge blocks of stone almost as large as a house detached themselves and fell.
Just wait a few minutes, an' I'll bet you'll be happy."
mr Haynes told her.
To our right rose mile after mile of red cliffs. As the last of the quaking asp leaves have fallen, there were no golden groves.
We received instructions as to how we should move so as to keep out of range of each other's guns; then mr Haynes and myself started one way, and mr Struble and mrs O'Shaughnessy the other.
His nose, however, seems to upset the original plan, for it is long and thin and bent slightly to one side.
Here the colors are very different from those of the desert.
In Oklahoma, at that hour of the day, the woods would be alive with song birds, even at this season; but here there are no song birds, and only the snapping of twigs, as our horses climbed the frosty trail, broke the silence.
While the men fed grain to the horses and saddled them, we prepared a hasty breakfast.
"Why, mamma," she said, "I had to look; he has swallowed something that won't go either up or down, and I'm 'fraid he'll choke."
mrs O'Shaughnessy has not seen him for years,--didn't know he lived up here.
Next morning the horses could not be found; the storm had frightened them, and they had tried to go home.
Although I can't brag about mr Murry's appearance, I can about his taste, for he admires mrs O'Shaughnessy.
It seemed to me that the storm lasted for hours; but at last it moved off up the valley, the flashes grew to be a mere glimmer, and the thunder mere rumbling.
Next day the men would come with the horses and pack it in to camp.
We are camped so near the great pines that I will confess I was powerfully afraid. Had the lightning struck one of the big pines there would not have been one of us left.
If you shoot haphazard you may cripple an elk and let it get away to die in misery.
On the night of september thirtieth, there was the most awful thunderstorm I ever witnessed,--flash after flash of the most blinding lightning, followed by deafening peals of thunder; and as it echoed from mountain to mountain the uproar was terrifying.
I sat on a log watching him dress his elk.
I suppose the forest makes it so.
"Why," he said, "that is only a landslide, not an earthquake.
It didn't seem a minute before we heard the beat of their hoofs and a queer panting noise that I can't describe.
If I could only make you feel the keen, bracing air, the exhilarating climb; if I could only paint its beauties, what a picture you should have!
I waved my hand weakly toward where the great mound of tangled trees and earth blocked the water.
That means that the elk will pass here in a short time and we may get a shot.
We'll get our limit."
Then came a long, hard climb.
We were following fresh tracks, and a little of the hunter's enthusiasm seized me.
Then too, we had to keep up with the men, and we didn't find that easy to do.
So make sure when you fire."
I heard the report of guns, and he tumbled in a confused heap.
Dawn in the mountains-how I wish I could describe it to you!
Supper was ready, but I went to bed at once.
Are you hurt?
The men had to find them, and as it took most of the day, we had to put off our hunt.
At supper Jerrine watched it as if fascinated until I sent her from the table and went out to speak to her about gazing.
Before the echo died away among the hills another booming report would seem to shiver the atmosphere and set all our tinware jangling.
We were up and about next morning in the first faint gray light.
We were obliged to pick our way carefully to avoid noise, and we were all together, not having come to a place where it seemed better to separate.
We had lunch, and the men covered the elk with pine boughs to keep the camp robbers from pecking it full of holes.
We had not followed them far when three cows and a "spike" came running out of the pines a little ahead of us.
So I will spend this snowy day in writing to you.
We had about resolved to go to our horses when we heard a volley of shots.
It has been snowing for a long time, but Clyde says he will take me hunting when it stops.
Afterwards, when we compared notes, we found that we both had the same thought: we both felt ashamed to be out to deal death to one of the Maker's beautiful creatures, and we were planning how we might avoid it.
They had seen a big bunch of elk headed by a splendid bull, but got no shot, and the elk went out of the pass.
He did what mr Struble said was doling a doleful tune.
The men worked as fast as they could at the elk, and we helped as much as we could, but it was dark before we reached camp.
He ran forward, but I stood still, fascinated by what I saw.
mr Haynes came running back.
At last we reached the top and sat down on some boulders to rest a few minutes before we started down to the hunting ground, which lay in a cuplike valley far below us.
His neck is long and his Adam's apple seems uncertain as to where it belongs.
I was scarcely through panting before we began to descend.
High overhead a triangle of wild geese harrowed the blue sky.
I thought old Goliar had hit me a biff with a blackthorn shilaley," she remarked.
They had heard the noise, but had thought it thunder. mr Haynes told me that if I would "chirk up" he would give me his elk teeth.
So I fired my Krag, but next I found myself picking myself up and wondering who had struck me and for what.
He seated himself and took from the bundle-an accordion!
I have always loved a storm; the beat of hail and rain, and the roar of wind always appeal to me; but there was neither wind nor rain,--just flash and roar.
We were to meet where the valley terminated in a broad pass.
For a while walking was easy and we made pretty good time; then we had a rocky hill to get over.
Come on up here and see my fine elk."
I was plumb out of breath, but men who are most gallant elsewhere are absolutely heartless on a hunt.
We felt sure we could get a chance at what elk there might be in the valley.
They, too, were up.
Have you picked many of your apples yet?"
They taste twice as good as any other color."
"How is your mother?" inquired Anne politely, just as if she had not seen mrs Barry picking apples that morning in excellent health and spirits.
"Let me get you a lunch anyhow," implored Anne.
"Well, I will," said Marilla, reflecting that it would probably be the wiser course.
But I do wish you'd stay till after tea.
I suppose mr Cuthbert is hauling potatoes to the LILY SANDS this afternoon, is he?" said Diana, who had ridden down to mr Harmon Andrews's that morning in Matthew's cart.
Well, this story will be a nice handle for those folks who are so down on me for making currant wine, although I haven't made any for three years ever since I found out that the minister didn't approve.
You know I never use that except for the minister or the Aids.
"Poor little soul," she murmured, lifting a loose curl of hair from the child's tear stained face.
"I wish you'd go, Marilla.
But there's a bottle half full of raspberry cordial that was left over from the church social the other night.
CHAPTER sixteen.
The stars in their courses fight against me, Marilla.
"That's awfully nice raspberry cordial, Anne," she said.
She even offered me some, but I couldn't swallow a mouthful.
Can I take her into the spare room to lay off her hat when she comes?
Oh, please don't say that you won't let Diana play with me any more.
"Of all the unreasonable women I ever saw she's the worst.
I lifted the mouse out with a spoon and threw it out in the yard and then I washed the spoon in three waters.
It was a beautiful fairy story, Marilla.
It will seem so nice and grown uppish. No fear of my forgetting to put the tea to draw when I have company.
"And asking Diana if she takes sugar!
Oh, it was such a pathetic tale, Diana. The tears just rained down over my cheeks while I mixed the cake.
OCTOBER was a beautiful month at Green Gables, when the birches in the hollow turned as golden as sunshine and the maples behind the orchard were royal crimson and the wild cherry trees along the lane put on the loveliest shades of dark red and bronzy green, while the fields sunned themselves in aftermaths.
"I'll get it right off-I'll go and put the tea down this very minute."
Where do you feel bad?"
Anne was watching for her coming and flew to the porch door to meet her.
mrs Barry was a woman of strong prejudices and dislikes, and her anger was of the cold, sullen sort which is always hardest to overcome.
And you know one can dream so much better in a room where there are pretty things.
"Won't you let me see Diana just once to say farewell?" she implored.
Didn't you know the difference yourself?"
"No, indeed!
Where do you feel bad?"
"Marilla is a famous cook.
Our potato crop is very good this year.
What on earth did you give her?"
Diana got awfully sick and had to go home. mrs Barry told mrs Lynde she was simply dead drunk.
"I don't think you are a fit little girl for Diana to associate with. You'd better go home and behave yourself."
Presently Anne stepped out bareheaded into the chill autumn dusk; very determinedly and steadily she took her way down through the sere clover field over the log bridge and up through the spruce grove, lighted by a pale little moon hanging low over the western woods.
But when she slipped into the east gable before going to bed and found that Anne had cried herself to sleep an unaccustomed softness crept into her face.
She went back to the kitchen with the wine bottle in her hand.
"Let's go out to the orchard and get some of the Red Sweetings, Diana.
The rosebud tea set!
Oh, Marilla, can I use the rosebud spray tea set?"
"Oh, mrs Barry, please forgive me.
"I must go home," said Diana, and that was all she would say.
He never scolded a bit. He put the tea down himself and said we could wait awhile as well as not.
You ARE able to imagine things after all or else you'd never have understood how I've longed for that very thing.
"Set Diana drunk!" she said when she found her voice.
She had to sit with Gertie Pye and she hated it; Gertie squeaked her pencil all the time and it just made her-Diana's-blood run cold; Ruby Gillis had charmed all her warts away, true's you live, with a magic pebble that old Mary Joe from the Creek gave her.
"I never tasted it," said Anne.
It was like heaping coals of fire on my head.
And-I don't really know if I'm doing right-it may make you more addlepated than ever-but you can ask Diana to come over and spend the afternoon with you and have tea here."
"I thought it was the cordial.
The last time I made a cake I forgot to put the flour in.
But you keep your wits about you this time.
I know she doesn't but of course I'll ask her just as if I didn't know.
"My heart is broken.
I told her it was all a mistake and you weren't to blame, but she just simply didn't believe me.
She just laughed silly like when her mother asked her what was the matter and went to sleep and slept for hours.
She is such a perfect housekeeper and fancy what she must have thought of us.
I was firmly convinced it was raspberry cordial.
"I must go home," repeated Diana, stupidly but determinedly.
She said we could have fruit cake and cherry preserves for tea.
Search revealed it away back on the top shelf.
I suppose she thinks you've done it for a silly joke or something of that sort.
Marilla whisked into the kitchen, grievously disturbed, leaving a very much distracted little soul in the porch behind her.
Diana poured herself out a tumblerful, looked at its bright red hue admiringly, and then sipped it daintily.
I meant to be so-so-hospitable.
But it isn't good manners to tell your company what you are going to give them to eat, so I won't tell you what she said we could have to drink.
I tried to be as polite and dignified as I could be, for I wanted mrs Chester Ross to think I was a ladylike little girl even if I wasn't pretty.
"I should think she would better punish Diana for being so greedy as to drink three glassfuls of anything," said Marilla shortly.
"I-I-must go right home."
I hope your father's crop is good too."
"My courage fails me at the thought of facing Diana's injured mother," sighed Anne.
mrs Barry, coming to the door in answer to a timid knock, found a white lipped eager eyed suppliant on the doorstep.
Marilla had changed her mind about it being all right by the time she got back from Orchard Slope.
To do her justice, she really believed Anne had made Diana drunk out of sheer malice prepense, and she was honestly anxious to preserve her little daughter from the contamination of further intimacy with such a child.
"I'm-I'm awful sick," she said, a little thickly.
And indeed, she walked very dizzily.
I love bright red drinks, don't you?
So she said, coldly and cruelly:
I thought it was only raspberry cordial.
"Oh, Marilla, I know by your face that it's been no use," she said sorrowfully.
"Now, please help yourself, Diana," she said politely.
Then she wept all the way back to Green Gables, where she sorrowfully put the remainder of the raspberry cordial back into the pantry and got tea ready for matthew and Jerry, with all the zest gone out of the performance.
Diana, that was a terrible moment.
"Oh, and dream in too, Marilla.
"I went up and saw mrs Barry myself and she treated me very insultingly.
She had a fearful headache all day yesterday.
matthew was so good.
But I forgot the flour and the cake was a dismal failure.
I forgot to tell you before.' Oh, Diana, I shall never forget that awful moment if I live to be a hundred. mrs Chester Ross just LOOKED at me and I thought I would sink through the floor with mortification.
Marilla was very cross and I don't wonder. I'm a great trial to her.
As a result just after Marilla had driven off to Carmody, Diana came over, dressed in HER second best dress and looking exactly as it is proper to look when asked out to tea.
"Whatever has gone wrong now, Anne?" queried Marilla in doubt and dismay.
I remembered everything and I just stood up in my place and shrieked out 'Marilla, you mustn't use that pudding sauce. There was a mouse drowned in it.
"Don't cry any more, Anne.
And then into the parlor to sit?"
She will never believe but what I did it on purpose."
I thought of it next morning and ran to the pantry. Diana, fancy if you can my extreme horror at finding a mouse drowned in that pudding sauce!
Her face hardened.
After mrs Chester Ross went away, Marilla gave me a dreadful scolding.
Sit right up this very minute and tell me what you are crying about."
She just carried that sauce and pudding out and brought in some strawberry preserves.
Anne's lips quivered.
I did not mean to-to-intoxicate Diana.
Don't they give you a thrill-several thrills?
How could I? Just imagine if you were a poor little orphan girl that kind people had adopted and you had just one bosom friend in all the world.
"Yes.
Marilla turned red as fire but she never said a word-then.
Marilla, I do NOT think she is a well bred woman.
"Why, three of those big glasses would have made her sick even if it had only been cordial.
"Oh, ever so many," said Anne forgetting to be dignified and jumping up quickly.
We had a plum pudding for dinner on Tuesday and there was half the pudding and a pitcherful of sauce left over.
"Let me give you a bit of fruit cake and some of the cherry preserves.
It doesn't taste a bit like hers."
If you are I'll go and nurse you, you can depend on that.
"What do you want?" she said stiffly.
"mrs Lynde was up to see mrs Barry today and mrs Barry was in an awful state," she wailed.
Lie down on the sofa for a little while and you'll be better.
You're so much more dignified than I am.
And then pressing her to take another piece of fruit cake and another helping of preserves.
There are so many responsibilities on a person's mind when they're keeping house, isn't there?"
"Oh, Diana, do you suppose that it's possible you're really taking the smallpox?
Why, Diana, what is the matter?"
You went and gave Diana currant wine instead of raspberry cordial.
"I do hope you haven't gone and been saucy to mrs Lynde again."
"Messy things," said Marilla, whose aesthetic sense was not noticeably developed.
I'll never forsake you.
Diana and I are parted forever.
Diana had stood up very unsteadily; then she sat down again, putting her hands to her head.
No answer from Anne save more tears and stormier sobs!
"It is fairly good, thank you.
"She is very well, thank you.
Marilla stared in blank amazement.
This speech which would have softened good mrs Lynde's heart in a twinkling, had no effect on mrs Barry except to irritate her still more.
Marilla said there was enough for another dinner and told me to set it on the pantry shelf and cover it.
I'm going to run out and stir the fire up.
She was terribly mortified about the pudding sauce last week.
In vain Anne pleaded.
I just told her plainly that currant wine wasn't meant to be drunk three tumblerfuls at a time and that if a child I had to do with was so greedy I'd sober her up with a right good spanking."
"My last hope is gone," she told Marilla.
"Mind you don't drop leaves all over the stairs then.
It would be terrible if we just skipped from September to November, wouldn't it?
And at the same time Marilla recollected that she had put the bottle of raspberry cordial down in the cellar instead of in the pantry as she had told Anne.
I'm going to decorate my room with them."
It will be all right."
And indeed, when she told the whole story to matthew that night, she did laugh heartily over Anne's tribulations.
"I must cry," said Anne.
Bedrooms were made to sleep in."
"mrs Barry won't forgive me?"
Oh, it sounds so-so-like mrs Thomas's husband!
The tumblerfuls were generous ones and the raspberry cordial was certainly very nice.
"I never thought raspberry cordial would set people drunk, Marilla-not even if they drank three big tumblerfuls as Diana did.
mrs Barry will think better of it when she finds you're not to blame.
Take as much as you want.
She was suspicious of Anne's big words and dramatic gestures and imagined that the child was making fun of her.
"Don't be foolish, Anne.
Into the kitchen she dashed and flung herself face downward on the sofa in an agony.
Likely she'd listen to you quicker than to me."
"How perfectly lovely!
Her face was twitching in spite of herself.
Monday afternoon Marilla sent her down to mrs Lynde's on an errand.
Oh, Marilla, it's a wonderful sensation just to think of it.
Diana Is Invited to Tea with Tragic Results
"Oh, you mustn't dream of going home without your tea," cried Anne in distress.
Oh, Marilla, I'm just overcome with woe."
I don't feel as if I wanted any after all those apples."
"Is it a pretty place?" asked Catherine.
Mamma says I am never within."
What beautiful hyacinths!
Why was Miss Tilney embarrassed?
By accident or argument?"
It was a narrow winding path through a thick grove of old Scotch firs; and Catherine, struck by its gloomy aspect, and eager to enter it, could not, even by the general's disapprobation, be kept from stepping forward.
"A mother would have been always present.
I have just learnt to love a hyacinth."
"But we have a charming morning after it," she added, desiring to get rid of the subject; "and storms and sleeplessness are nothing when they are over.
This was the only comfort that occurred.
Alarmed, but not discouraged, she tried it another way; a bolt flew, and she believed herself successful; but how strangely mysterious!
In the pause which succeeded, a sound like receding footsteps and the closing of a distant door struck on her affrighted ear.
CHAPTER twenty one
Human nature could support no more.
The general's good humour increased.
What could it contain?
A lamp could not have expired with more awful effect.
Her heart fluttered, her knees trembled, and her cheeks grew pale.
It was not absolutely ebony and gold; but it was japan, black and yellow japan of the handsomest kind; and as she held her candle, the yellow had very much the effect of gold.
With this spirit she sprang forward, and her confidence did not deceive her. Her resolute effort threw back the lid, and gave to her astonished eyes the view of a white cotton counterpane, properly folded, reposing at one end of the chest in undisputed possession!
Till she had made herself mistress of its contents, however, she could have neither repose nor comfort; and with the sun's first rays she was determined to peruse it.
I will look into it-cost me what it may, I will look into it-and directly too-by daylight.
It was in this same year, eighteen fifty three, that Congress cut off from Oregon the region that now comprises the state of Washington and all of Idaho north of the Snake River.
"But what about the land for the claim?"
So when we took account of stock, we had the baby, Buck and Dandy, a tent, an ox yoke and chain, enough clothing and bedding to keep us comfortable, a very little food, and no money.
I had plenty of pure, fresh air, while she, in a closed cabin and in the same room with many others, had neither fresh air nor freedom from creeping things that make life miserable.
Slackening pace at nightfall to cool my system gradually, I finally made my camp and slept as soundly as if on a bed of down.
Yet underlying all this there ran a vein of good cheer, of hopefulness.
That question was a stumper.
The wife, baby, bedding, ox yoke, and log chain were sent up the Cowlitz in a canoe.
Could it be possible my folks had been taken sick and had been removed?
I was well up the left bank of the Cowlitz River; how far I could not tell, for there were no milestones on the crooked, half obstructed trail leading downstream.
God bless those earlier pioneers!
Some take it there with them.
She never finished milking that cow, nor did she ever milk any cow when her husband was at home.
Not knowing what else to do, I paddled over to the town of Steilacoom.
The cabin could not be seen until the trail came quite near it.
To be sure, our food was plain as well as our dress; our hours of labor were long and the labor itself was frequently severe; the pioneers appeared rough and uncouth.
They were all good to us, sometimes to the point of embarrassment, in their generous hospitality.
Here a camp must be established again.
I found that my wife had not fared any better than I had on the trail, and in fact not so well.
My consolation was that the night was short and I could see to travel by three o'clock.
I saw them selling at that.
Much of the conversation naturally centered on the question of our moving to a new home.
I was dressed for the race and was eager for the trial.
I had neither coat nor blanket. I wore a heavy woolen shirt, a slouch hat, and worn shoes; both hat and shoes gave ample ventilation.
"CAN I get home tonight?" I asked myself.
"Where do they get the money?"
Men working in the timber camps get four dollars a day and their board.
The floor of the cabin-that is, the hotel-was a great deal harder than the sand spit where I had passed the night.
"Everybody seems to have money.
Buck and Dandy and I took the trail.
Like all the earlier pioneers, he took a pride in helping others who came later.
He would not listen to our proceeding any farther before the next day.
I knew that smallpox was raging among the Indians, and that a camp where it was prevalent was less than a quarter of a mile away.
Everything looked cheerful; everything interested us, especially the crows, with their trick of breaking clams by rising in the air and dropping them on the boulders. There were so many new things to observe that for a time we almost forgot that we were nearly out of provisions and money and did not know what had happened to Oliver.
However, we had one consolation,--it would be worse in winter than at that time.
All help themselves to what they want.
We set up our tent, and felt at home once more.
He insisted on entertaining us in his comfortable cabin, and sent us on our way in the morning, rejoicing in plenty.
I was offered five cents a foot for piles.
"Off the government land, of course.
Jackson had settled there eight years before, ten miles out from the landing, and now had an abundance around him.
On this occasion I was ill prepared for a cool night camp, having neither blanket nor coat.
Our cows were gone-given for provender to save the lives of the oxen during the deep December snow.
However, we decided to move, and began to prepare for the journey.
The money had all been expended on the canoe passage.
"Oh, almost everybody has to buy.
That great hearted pioneer, john r Jackson, did not hesitate a moment, stranger though I was, to say, "Yes, you can have two if you need them."
As a result of this work, he was able to exhibit a slug of California gold and other money that looked precious indeed in our eyes.
At best it would be a race with the sun, but the days were long, and the twilight was long, and I would camp that much nearer home if I made haste.
If we had Buck and Dandy over there we could make twenty dollars a day putting in piles."
I do not look upon those years of camp and cabin life as years of hardship.
But I could not make it, so again I lay out on the trail.
The butter you have there would bring you a dollar a pound as fast as you could weigh it out.
The little wife never lost sight of that bargain made before we were married.
mount Rainier looked bigger and taller than ever.
I had expected to reach Hard Bread's Hotel, where the people in the canoe would stop overnight.
The days were always too short, and interest in our work was always unabated.
With her shoes for a pillow, a shawl for covering, small wonder that she reported, "I did not sleep a wink last night."
Finding that the boat and provisions had been taken and seeing smoke in the bight, he surmised what had happened and came paddling across to the tent.
Socks I had none; neither had I suspenders, an improvised belt taking their place.
After all, the cabin could not be reached, as the trail could not be followed at night.
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Oliver was to have had the cabin ready by the time I returned.
Now I found myself praising a country for the agricultural qualities of which I could not say much. But if we could sell produce higher, might we not well lower our standard of an ideal farm?
There I found out where the boat and the provisions had been left, and after an earnest parley succeeded in getting possession.
We never thought of catching cold from lying on the ground or on cedar boughs, or from getting a good drenching.
And such a road!
With my canoe in tow I soon made my way back to where my little flock was, and speedily transferred all to the spot that was to be our island dwelling.
Great was the feasting, with clam bakes, huckleberry pies and puddings, venison for meat, and fresh vegetables from our garden, at which the newcomers could not cease from marveling.
Dusk came on, and still no signs.
The trouble had been that the people were all asleep, while I was there in the early morning expending my breath for nothing.
Then an intolerable thirst seized upon me and compelled me to leave the road and descend into the valley for water.
I lay down in the shade of a small tree near the spring to take an afternoon nap.
So Oliver was sent ahead, while I was to take his place and help the immigrants through the Natchess Pass.
As the sun rose, the heat became intolerable.
Then came the attempt to make myself heard across the wide river by the people of the fort.
We made the trip across the divide in twenty two days without serious mishap or loss.
The dust, in places, brought vivid memories of the trip across the Plains.
Many of them, it is true, were weakened by the long trip across the Plains; but better food was obtainable, and the goal was near at hand.
I enjoyed overcoming the difficulties, and so did the greater number of the company.
"I want to; but what about my wife and the two babies, at the island?"
By this time the wind had gone down and comparative calm prevailed.
Finding that the road could be followed, though but dimly seen, I kept on the trail until a late hour, when I unsaddled and hobbled the pony.
Tethering my pony for his much needed dinner, I opened my sack of hard bread to count the contents; my store was half gone.
I must have been two hours hallooing at the top of my voice, until I was hoarse from the violent effort.
The row of sweet peas that my wife had planted near the cabin helped to put heart into those travel weary pioneers; where flowers could be planted, a home could be made.
FINDING MY PEOPLE
It required a great effort to creep out of the blanket, and an even greater effort to free the blanket from the accumulated sand.
I sat upon the bank hopelessly discouraged, not knowing what to do.
Go around it we could not; to cut it out with our dulled, flimsy saw seemed an endless task.
When the trail was found, there was the saddle to look for, and this was located with some difficulty.
He came across the river and gave me glad tidings.
Rousing before sundown, refreshed, Bobby and I took the trail with new courage.
The cool of the evening invigorated the pony, and we pushed on.
The spirits of the tired party rose as they looked upon this scene, indicating a contentment and prosperity in which they might participate if they so desired.
I traveled up and down the river bank for half a mile or so, in the hope of catching a favorable breeze to carry my voice to the fort, yet all to no avail.
Soon after I saw a man; he immediately responded to my renewed efforts to attract attention.
One day we encountered a newly fallen tree, cocked up on its own upturned roots, four feet from the ground.
Finally, while sitting there wondering what to do, I spied a blue smoke arising from a cabin on the other side.
Hundreds of cattle, sheep, and horses were quietly grazing, scattered over the landscape as far as one could see.
ON leaving my newly found friends I faced a discouraging prospect.
I tethered my pony this time, and rolled myself up in the blanket, only to find myself fairly buried in the drifting sand in the morning.
"How long will it take?" they asked.
To make matters worse, his hobbles had become loosened, giving him free use of all his feet, and he was in no mood to take the trail again. Coaxing was of no avail, driving would do no good.
But I cautioned them to expect some snow and much hard work.
Every man literally "put his shoulder to the wheel." We were compelled often to take hold of the wheels to boost the wagons over the logs or to ease them down steep places.
The man was Shirley Ensign, of Olympia, who had established a ferry across the Columbia River and had lingered to set over belated immigrants, if any should come along.
Their behavior was so in contrast to that of the Indians on the Sound that I could not help wondering what it meant.
No more immigrants were met until I reached the main traveled route beyond the Columbia River.
This brought disappointment; they had thought they were about through with the journey.
My younger brother also lay buried on the Plains, near Independence Rock.
I inquired for my mother the first thing.
Preparations must be made without delay for shelter from the coming storms of winter; the stock must be cared for, and other beginnings made for a new life of independence.
For a short time the little party halted to take breath and to look over the new country.
Procuring a fresh horse, I started out in a cheerful mood, determined to reach camp that night if I could possibly do so.
This rest, however, could not last long.
A few hundred yards of travel brought uneasiness, as it was evident that we were not on the regular trail.
I have often thought that some one ought to write a just tribute to their valor and patience, a book of their heroic deeds.
But I could not wait there for them.
Father said some one must go and look after them.
Rejoicing and outbursts of grief followed.
"You came to stay with us, didn't you?"
The next incident that I remember vividly was my attempt to cross the Columbia, just below the mouth of the Snake River.
Not knowing but this was some cut-off, I went on until the Columbia River bluff was reached and the great river was in sight, half a mile distant and several hundred feet lower.
"About three weeks."
When we came to consider how the party should proceed, I advised the over mountain trip.
When night came, I could not find it in my heart to camp.
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
As to this return trip, I can truly say for myself that it was not one of hardship.
Taking an opportunity to seize his tail, I followed him around about over the plain and through the sage brush at a rapid gait; finally he slackened pace and I again became master.
The start for the high, arid table lands bordering the Yakima valley cut me loose from all communication.
Strive against it as I might, my eyes would strain at the horizon to catch a glimpse of the expected train.
A far larger trade centered here than at any other point on Puget Sound, and we decided on a halt to make ourselves acquainted with the surroundings.
Turning the deer loose, we pulled our best for the shore, and found shelter in an eddy.
Oliver did not sing as usual while preparing for camp.
As we drew off from the mouth of the Puyallup River, numerous parties of Indians were in sight.
As the tide and wind favored us, we did not stop.
As we afterwards ascertained, we could see the famous San Juan Island, later the bone of contention between our government and Great Britain, when the northern boundary of the United States was settled.
They seemed to be a listless lot, with no thought for the future, or even for the immediate present.
We were sorely tempted to accept the flattering offer of four dollars a day for common labor in a timber camp, but concluded not to be swerved from the search for a new homesite.
We remembered the timber camps, the bustle and stir of the little new village, and the activity that we saw there, greater than anywhere else on the waters of the Sound.
It was a discouraging outlook, even if there had been roads.
Here, at what we might call the end of our rope, we had found the land, but with conditions that seemed almost too adverse to overcome.
It seemed an appalling undertaking to clear this land, the greater part of it being covered with a heavy growth of balm and alder trees and a thick tangle of underbrush besides.
It was simply the camp of a company of United States soldiers, quartered in wooden shells of houses and log cabins.
CRUISING ABOUT ON PUGET SOUND
We were wide awake now and gave chase.
CHAPTER TWELVE
We did not know the exact location of the town.
This camp did not prove so dreary as the last one, although it was more exposed to the swell of the big waters and the sweep of the wind.
Just then some Indian canoes came along, moving with the tide.
I remember that camp quite vividly; though I cannot locate it exactly, I know that it was on the water front within the present limits of the large and thriving city of Tacoma.
After a sober second thought, we realized that we had nothing to trade but labor; and we had not come as far as this to be laborers for hire.
My thoughts went back to wife and baby in the lonely cabin on the Columbia River, and again to that bargain we had made before marriage, that we were going to be farmers.
The other two were gracefully beating their way out against the stiff breeze to the open waters beyond.
Now I have a fish story to tell.
We hardly knew whether to camp in our boat or to start out on unknown waters in the dark.
As a result things were booming.
Sure enough, a short pull with a favorable current brought us to the Narrows and into Commencement Bay, in sight of numerous camp fires in the distance.
As we were not looking for a mill site or town site, we pushed on next day.
We lingered at the mouth of the river in doubt as to what best to do.
Here we were compelled to remain two or three days in a dismal camp, until the weather became more favorable.
I have always been shy about telling it, lest some smart fellow should up and say I was drawing on my imagination: I am not.
Many shacks and camps, at first mistaken for the white men's houses, were found to be occupied by natives.
Our Indian visitors made preparations to proceed on their journey, and assured us it was all right ahead.
Three days sufficed to land us back in the bay we sought, but the ships were gone.
What prettier sight is there than a full rigged vessel with all sails spread!
When we had broken camp and were sailing along, we heard a dull sound like that often heard from the tide rips.
The workers, it may be said, are less numerous among the men; the women are all industrious.
Fortune favored us, for we found a good sandy beach upon which to land, though we got a thorough drenching while so doing.
There were some fine voices to be heard, and though there were but slight variations in the sounds or words, the Indians seemed never to tire in repeating, and I must confess we never tired of listening.
The shining, pebbly beach in front, the clear, level spot adjoining, with the beautiful open and comparatively level plateau in the background, and two or three vessels at anchor in the foreground, made a picture of a perfect city site.
The memory of those ships, however, remained with us and determined our minds on the important question where the trade center was to be.
We had crossed the two great states of Illinois and Iowa, over hundreds of miles of unoccupied prairie land as rich as anything that ever "lay out of doors," on our way from Indiana to Oregon in search of land on which to make a home.
A perpendicular bluff rose from the highwater mark, leaving no place for camp fire or bed.
Soon we came in sight of a fleet of seven vessels lying at anchor in a large bay, several miles in extent.
Neither did I have much to say; but I fell to work, mechanically preparing the much needed meal. We ate in silence and then went to sleep.
Like the lost hunters, "we knew where we were, but we didn't know where any place else was." Not lost ourselves, the world was lost from us.
We responded, partly in English and partly in Chinook, that we were, and besides that it was impossible for us to proceed against the strong current.
Not a sailing craft of any kind was in sight of the little town, though the building activity was going on as before.
How could we be farmers if we did not have land?
Upon the eastern slope of the shores of this bay lay the two towns, Port Steilacoom, and Steilacoom City, both established in eighteen fifty one.
Some were trolling for salmon, with a lone Indian in the bow of each canoe; others with poles were fishing for smelt; still others with nets seemed waiting for fisherman's luck.
The Indians told us that there were two other like obstructions a few miles farther up the river, and that the current was very strong.
Most of all, my thoughts would go on to the little cabin on the Columbia River.
They would often go out even to the open sea on their fishing excursions in canoes manned by thirty men or more.
Other parties were passing, those in each canoe singing a plaintive chant in minor key, accompanied by heavy strokes of the paddle handles against the sides of the canoe, as if to keep time.
Here and there we saw a family industriously pursuing some object; but as a class they seemed to me the laziest set of people on earth.
I have found just as industrious people, both men and women, among the Indians as among the whites.
I have said well manned, but half the paddles, in fact, were wielded by women, and the post of honor, or that where most dexterity was required, was occupied by a woman.
Again we set about searching for claims, and the more we searched the less we liked the look of things.
It took a tugging of two days to go six miles.
Such timber!
The sight of those seven vessels lying in the offing made a profound impression upon our minds.
With misgivings and doubts, on the fourth day Oliver and I loaded our outfit into our skiff and floated out on the receding tide, whither, we did not know.
"It surely can't be," I responded, three quarters asleep.
A flat bottomed boat like our little skiff, we thought, could not stay afloat there very long.
We had come to find a place to make a farm, and a farm we were going to have.
As the sun shone warm and the tide was taking us rapidly in the direction we wanted to go, why shouldn't I doze a little too, even if we did miss some of the sightseeing?
Over these pack animals could pass, but wagon roads there were none; and whether a feasible route for one could be found, only time and labor could determine.
By this time we had drifted into the Narrows, and we soon found we had something more important to do than to tow a deer.
A mile and a half from the shore we found also Fort Steilacoom.
Then launching our boat, we pulled for the head of Whidbey's Island, a few miles to the northwest.
We could feel the fish striking against the boat in such vast numbers that they fairly moved it.
When we fell asleep that night, it was without visions of new found wealth.
That opinion was materially modified later, as I became better acquainted with their habits.
They were a drunken, rascally rabble, spending their gains from the sale of fish and oil in a debauch that would last as long as their money held out.
Intense rivalry ran between the two towns, upper and lower Steilacoom, at this time.
Very soon we caught up with the animal and succeeded in throwing a rope over its horns.
It was our first introduction to a genuine tide rip.
So our first night's camp was scarcely twelve miles from where we had started in the morning.
We wished ourselves back at our cabin on the Columbia.
"Why, we are drifting right back almost in the same direction from which we came, but into another bay!
But we were no sooner fairly out of sight of the little village than the question came up which way to go.
We could not stay at Olympia.
An encampment of Indians being near, a party of them soon visited our camp and began making signs for trade.
Olympia at the time contained about one hundred inhabitants.
Oliver said no, and my better judgment also said no, though I was sorely pressed with a feeling of homesickness.
Without understanding her words, but knowing well what she meant, we fell to disposing of this, our first clam dinner.
But what was the use of stopping here?
We had pushed on past some good locations on the Chehalis, and farther south, without locating.
We had been in Indian country for nearly a year, but with guns by our side, if not in our hands, during nearly half the time.
We wanted a place to make a farm, and we could not do it on such forbidding land as this.
But a feeling of deep disappointment fell upon us when we could see in the foreground only bare, dismal mud flats, and beyond these a channel scarcely twice as wide as that of the great river we had left, bounded on either side by high, heavily timbered land.
A beautiful pebbly beach extended almost to the water's edge even at low tide.
Thus began and ended our first lesson in the Chinook jargon, and our first experience with a clam bake.
This brought some merriment in the camp.
"No, we are drifting into another bay; that cannot be where we want to go."
Neither Oliver nor I had much experience in boating, and we had none in boat building.
My first camp on Puget Sound was not cheerful.
Without saying by your leave or anything else, the motherly looking native woman began tearing down our camp fire.
We felt so happy that we were almost glad the journey had been interrupted.
Our expectations had been raised high by the glowing accounts of Puget Sound.
However, when we had discarded the idea of taking a canoe, we set to work with a hearty good will to build us a skiff.
"Let her alone, and see what she's up to," said Oliver, noticing that I was disturbed at such interference with my well laid plans for bread baking.
The idea that there lived a person who did not know how to cook clams!
When I came to know the Indians better and saw their performances in these frail craft, my admiration for the canoes was even greater than my distrust had been.
The little town of Olympia to the south became dimmed by distance.
In April of eighteen fifty three, the word had begun to pass around that we were to have a new Territory to embrace the country north of the Columbia River.
It had three stores, a hotel, a livery stable, a saloon, and one weekly newspaper.
As in the trip across the Plains, we must provide our own transportation.
"Let the tide decide; that will carry us out toward the ocean."
CHAPTER ELEVEN
We soon learned that the bivalves were to be found in almost unlimited quantity and were widely distributed.
The natives soon withdrew to their own camp.
"The best thing we can do is to camp," said Oliver.
The harvest was ready twice a day, when the tide was out, and we need have no fear of a famine even if cast away in some unfrequented place.
After considerable dickering, with signs and gestures and words many times repeated, we were able to impart the information that we wanted a lesson in cookery.
What channel should we take?
OUR enjoyment of this first home did not last long.
Before retiring for the night, we repaid the visit.
We made it out of light lumber, then easily obtained at Tumwater.
Its capital was to be on Puget Sound.
We had made the Indians a present first, it is true; but we did not expect any return, except perhaps goodwill.
"I'm blessed if I know, but it looks as if she wanted to sell some clams."
If she would show us how to cook the clams, we would buy some.
Upon these the clams were deposited.
Should we turn around and go back?
We floated lazily with the tide, sometimes taking a few strokes with the oars, and at other times whistling for the wind.
Here on the Columbia we should be away off to one side, out of touch with the people who would shortly become a great separate commonwealth.
We took a lesson in Chinook, and by signs and words held conversation until a late hour.
We had not stopped to study the Indian character.
They were covered with fine twigs, and upon the twigs earth was placed.
This first clam bake gave us great encouragement.
"Yes, but I do not see any way out there."
Here and there might be a vessel loading piles and square timber for the San Francisco market, but not a steamer was then plying on the Sound; there was not even a sailing craft that essayed to carry passengers.
"What does she say, Oliver?"
Yesterday I sent a serjeant at arms to demand some who, by my order, were accused of high treason.
Beale, a tailor, informed the commons that, walking in the fields, he had hearkened to the discourse of certain persons unknown to him, and had heard them talk of a most dangerous conspiracy.
Multitudes flocked towards Westminster, and insulted the prelates and such of the lords as adhered to the crown.
The speaker, falling on his knee, prudently replied, "I have, sir, neither eyes to see nor tongue to speak in this place, but as the house is pleased to direct me, whose servant I am.
A serjeant at arms, in the king's name, demanded of the house the five members: and was sent back without any positive answer. Messengers were employed to search for them, and arrest them.
I must here declare to you, that though no king that ever was in England could be more careful of your privileges than I shall be, yet in cases of treason no person has privilege.
A hundred and eight ruffians, as he learned, had been appointed to murder a hundred and eight lords and commoners, and were promised rewards for these assassinations, ten pounds for each lord, forty shillings for each commoner.
The majority of the peers adhered to the king, and plainly foresaw the depression of nobility, as a necessary consequence of popular usurpations on the crown.
These men, finding that their credit ran high with the nation, ventured to encourage those popular disorders, which, they vainly imagined, they possessed authority sufficient to regulate and control.
Meanwhile the tumults still continued, and even increased about Westminster and Whitehall.
As stories of plots, however ridiculous, were willingly attended to, and were dispersed among the multitude, to whose capacity they were well adapted.
No man in either house ventured to speak a word in their vindication; so much displeased was every one at the egregious imprudence of which they had been guilty.
They ordered halberts to be brought into the hall where they assembled, and thus armed themselves against those conspiracies with which, they pretended, they were hourly threatened.
Well, since I see all the birds are flown, I do expect that you will send them to me as soon as they return.
But men had not leisure to wonder at the indiscretion of this measure: their astonishment was excited by new attempts, still more precipitate and imprudent.
But the tide of popularity seized many, and carried them wide of the most established maxims of civil policy.
When he considered all these increasing acts of insolence in the commons, he was apt to ascribe them in a great measure to his own indolence and facility.
The queen and the ladies of the court further stimulated his passion, and represented that, if he exerted the vigor and displayed the majesty of a monarch, the daring usurpations of his subjects would shrink before him.
When the king was looking around for the accused members, he asked the speaker, who stood below, whether any of these persons were in the house.
Their trunks, chambers, and studies were sealed and locked.
The whole world stood amazed at this important accusation, so suddenly entered upon without concert, deliberation, or reflection.
That evening the accused members, to show the greater apprehension, removed into the city, which was their fortress.
This principle, which prevails so much among zealots, never displayed itself so openly as during the transactions of this whole period.
As soon as it was presented to the lords, that house desired a conference with the commons, whom they informed of this unexpected protestation.
For this reason they protested against all laws, votes, and resolutions, as null and invalid, which should pass during the time of their constrained absence.
The king left them at the door, and he himself advanced alone through the hall, while all the members rose to receive him.
This protestation, which, though just and legal, was certainly ill timed, was signed by twelve bishops, and communicated to the king, who hastily approved of it.
The punishment of leaders is ever the last triumph over a broken and routed party; but surely was never before attempted, in opposition to a faction, during the full tide of its power and success.
In order to obtain a majority in the upper house, the commons had recourse to the populace, who on other occasions had done them such important service.
Herbert, attorney general, appeared in the house of peers and in his majesty's name entered an accusation of high treason against Lord Kimbolton and five commoners, Hollis, Sir Arthur Hazlerig, Hambden, Pym, and Strode.
Instead of obedience, I received a message.
But, notwithstanding these efforts of the commons, they could not expect the concurrence of the upper house either to this law, or to any other which they should introduce for the further limitation of royal authority.
He was accompanied by his ordinary retinue, to the number of above two hundred, armed as usual, some with halberts, some with walking swords.
The opportunity was seized with joy and triumph.
These five members, at least Pym, Hambden and Hollis, are the very heads of the popular party; and if these be taken off, what fate must be expected by their followers, who are, many of them, accomplices in the same treason?
By way of reproach, these gentlemen gave the rabble the appellation of Roundheads, on account of the short cropped hair which they wore: these called the others Cavaliers.
Every measure pursued by the commons, and, still more, every attempt made by their partisans, were full of the most inveterate hatred against the hierarchy, and showed a determined resolution of subverting the whole ecclesiastical establishment.
When the commons employed in their remonstrance language so severe and indecent, they had not been actuated entirely by insolence and passion; their views were more solid and profound.
But I assure you, on the word of a king, I never did intend any force, but shall proceed against them in a fair and legal way; for I never meant any other.
Each party was now willing to throw on its antagonist the odium of commencing a civil war; but both of them prepared for an event which they deemed inevitable.
Lay your hands on your hearts, and ask yourselves whether I may not likewise be disturbed with fears and jealousies, and if so, I assure you that this message has nothing lessened them.
He shut the gates, and refused to receive the king, who desired leave to enter with twenty persons only.
Lord Falkland had accepted the office of secretary; a man who adorned the purest virtue, with the richest gifts of nature, and the most valuable acquisitions of learning.
From the mixed character, indeed, of Charles, arose in part the misfortunes in which England was at this time involved.
The commons sent up an impeachment against nine peers, for deserting their duty in parliament.
Lord Keeper Littleton, after sending the great seal before him, had fled to York.
Part of these, after escaping many perils, arrived safely to the king.
"As to the militia, I thought so much of it before I gave that answer, and am so much assured that the answer is agreeable to what in justice or reason you can ask, or I in honor grant, that I shall not alter it in any point.
To determine his choice in the approaching contests, every man hearkened with avidity to the reasons proposed on both sides.
Hardly were there men enough to receive it, or room sufficient to stow it; and many with regret were obliged to carry back their offerings, and wait till the treasurers could find leisure to receive them; such zeal animated the pious partisans of the parliament, especially in the city.
Within ten days, vast quantities of plate were brought to their treasurers.
The war of the pen preceded that of the sword, and daily sharpened the humors of the opposite parties.
To the ordinance of the parliament concerning the militia, the king opposed his commissions of array.
Meanwhile the splendor of the nobility with which the king was environed much eclipsed the appearance at Westminster.
Near the moiety, too, of the lower house absented themselves from counsels which they deemed so full of danger.
The magazine of Hull contained the arms of all the forces levied against the Scots; and Sir john Hotham, the governor, though he had accepted of a commission from the parliament, was not thought to be much disaffected to the church and monarchy.
Though these writings were of consequence, and tended much to reconcile the nation to Charles, it was evident that they would not be decisive, and that keener weapons must determine the controversy.
The small interval of time which had passed since the fatal accusation of the members, had been sufficient to open the eyes of many, and to recover them from the astonishment with which at first they had been seized.
Their own members, also, who should return to them, they voted not to admit till satisfied concerning the reason of their absence.
You speak of jealousies and fears.
So obvious indeed was the king's present inability to invade the constitution, that the fears and jealousies which operated on the people, and pushed them so furiously to arms, were undoubtedly not of a civil, but of a religious nature.
Besides private adventurers without number, the king and parliament themselves carried on the controversy by messages, remonstrances, and declarations; where the nation was really the party to whom all arguments were addressed.
His preparations were not near so forward as those of the parliament.
By him, assisted by the king himself, were the memorials of the royal party chiefly composed.
I do not ask what you have done for me.
The counties obeyed the one or the other, according as they stood affected.
"What would you have?
Charles therefore entertained hopes that if he presented himself at Hull before the commencement of hostilities, Hotham, overawed by his presence, would admit him with his retinue; after which he might easily render himself master of the place.
He now prepared himself for defence.
Charles had here a double advantage.
In order to remove all jealousy, he had resolved that their usurpations and illegal pretensions should be apparent to the whole world; and thought that to recover the confidence of the people was a point much more material to his interest, than the collecting of any magazines, stores, or armies which might breed apprehensions of violent or illegal counsels.
All this considered, there is a judgment of Heaven upon this nation if these distractions continue.
Charles accordingly resolved to support his authority by arms.
The queen, disposing of the crown jewels in Holland, had been enabled to purchase a cargo of arms and ammunition.
"Oh, never mind her," Hurstwood remarked.
It's half after eight already," and he drew out his watch.
"You don't say so," would be the reply.
A GLITTERING NIGHT FLOWER: THE USE OF A NAME
There were, in the last place, a few good followers, neither rich nor poor, famous, nor yet remarkably successful, with whom he was friendly on the score of good fellowship.
"Great old boy, isn't he?
"By George, that's so, I must go and call on her before I go away."
He was the picture of fastidious comfort.
We had quite a time there together."
He was not a moneyed man.
"Glad of it," said Hurstwood, his black eyes lit with a warmth which half displaced the cold make believe that usually dwelt in them.
The many friends he met here dropped in because they craved, without, perhaps, consciously analysing it, the company, the glow, the atmosphere which they found.
Drouet followed him with his eyes, much interested.
There was a class, however, too rich, too famous, or too successful, with whom he could not attempt any familiarity of address, and with these he was professionally tactful, assuming a grave and dignified attitude, paying them the deference which would win their good feeling without in the least compromising his own bearing and opinions.
"Friday," said Drouet.
By the way," he added, "are you going anywhere to night?"
Nevertheless, the fact that here men gather, here chatter, here love to pass and rub elbows, must be explained upon some grounds.
"Twelve o'clock," said Hurstwood.
There he leaned over the splendid bar and swallowed a glass of plain whiskey and purchased a couple of cigars, one of which he lighted. This to him represented in part high life-a fair sample of what the whole must be.
"You haven't anything on hand for the night, have you?" added Hurstwood.
"That's Jules Wallace, the spiritualist."
This was really a gorgeous saloon from a Chicago standpoint.
I have something I want to show you," said Hurstwood.
When these things would fall upon Drouet's ears, he would straighten himself a little more stiffly and eat with solid comfort.
"What are you going to take?" he added, as the barkeeper, in snowy jacket and tie, leaned toward them from behind the bar.
"That's right," said Drouet, going out.
"He's got the money, all right," and a little twinkle passed over his eyes.
His preference for Fitzgerald and Moy's Adams Street place was another yard off the same cloth.
"Well, you'd better be going.
"Who is he?"
"Oh, I don't know," returned Hurstwood.
The barkeeper was setting out the glasses and bottle before them, and they now poured out the draught as they talked, Drouet filling his to within a third of full, as was considered proper, and Hurstwood taking the barest suggestion of whiskey and modifying it with seltzer.
"A little of the same for me," put in Hurstwood.
"Why, yes, didn't you know that?
I wouldn't bother about it myself, though.
'What, were they disputing, then?' said Emily.
'Obey my order,' repeated Montoni.
'Good God!' exclaimed Emily, 'what will become of me!'
'Would you, indeed, be glad?' said Emily, in a tone of mournful reproach.
'Holy Saints!' exclaimed Annette, 'how can I help it!
I have a punishment which you think not of; it is terrible!
All this I saw through the key hole.
Neither the estates in Languedoc, or Gascony, shall be yours; you have dared to question my right,--now dare to question my power.
'Credit them, ma'amselle! why all the world could not persuade me out of them.
'What had I but trouble to expect, when I condescended to reason with a baby!
I thought, when I saw them first, that all those fine silks and fine veils,--why, ma'amselle, their veils were worked with silver! and fine trimmings-boded no good-I guessed what they were!'
'Quit my presence!' cried Montoni.
This night-this very night'--
But I will be trifled with no longer: let the recollection of your aunt's sufferings, in consequence of her folly and obstinacy, teach you a lesson.--Sign the papers.'
'And for these fool's tricks-I will soon discover by whom they are practised.'
'Sign the papers,' said Montoni, more impatiently than before.
'Locked you up!' said Emily, with displeasure, 'Why do you permit Ludovico to lock you up?'
"And Jehoiada made a covenant between him, and between all the people, and between the king, that they should be the Lord's people.
In the following year Ben hadad fought against the Israelites at Aphek, but was again defeated.
Accustomed for generations to desert warfare, they were fearless warriors.
Ahaziah endeavoured to conceal himself in Samaria, but was slain also.
I reared a column of the living and a column of heads.
Another revolt broke out in the Kirkhi district between the upper reaches of the Tigris and the southwestern shores of Lake Van.
After a reign of two years Ahaziah was succeeded by Joram.
In the distance and beyond the Zab, Keshaf, another venerable ruin, rose indistinctly into the evening mist.
Then Tela was attacked.
His first objective was Aleppo, where he was welcomed.
In times of quiet, the studs of the Pasha and of the Turkish authorities, with the horses of the cavalry and of the inhabitants of Mosul, are sent here to graze....
The Assyrian war lord afterwards forced several Nairi kings to acknowledge him as their overlord.
Akhiababa the pretender was sent to Nineveh with a few supporters; and when they had been flayed their skins were nailed upon the city walls.
Girls hurried over the greensward to seek their fathers' cattle, or crouched down to milk those which had returned alone to their well remembered folds.
In time Jehoiada stirred up a revolt against the Baal worshipping queen of Judah.
He also extended and redecorated the royal palace at Nineveh, and devoted much attention to the temples.
Layard excavated the emperor's palace and dispatched to London, among other treasures of antiquity, the sublime winged human headed lions which guarded the entrance, and many bas reliefs.
And thou shalt smite the house of Ahab thy master, that I may avenge the blood of my servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the Lord, at the hand of Jezebel....
He achieved so complete a victory that he captured the Babylonian general and three thousand of his followers.
"And Israel pursued them: and Ben hadad the king of Syria escaped on a horse with the horseman.
It was promoted by the Nairi tribes, and even supported by some Assyrian officials.
Their booty and possessions, cattle, sheep, I carried away; many captives I burned with fire.
Ashur natsir pal's own account of the operations runs as follows:--
And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of the Lord his God.
After Solomon died, the kingdom of his son Rehoboam was restricted to Judah, Benjamin, Moab, and Edom.
Assyrian colonies were established in various districts for strategical purposes, and officials supplanted the petty kings in certain of the northern city States.
Ashur natsir pal's great palace at Kalkhi was excavated by Layard, who has given a vivid description of the verdant plain on which the ancient city was situated, as it appeared in spring.
He was condemned for his idolatry by the prophet Ahijah, who declared, "The Lord shall smite Israel, as a reed is shaken in the water; and he shall root up Israel out of this good land, which he gave to their fathers, and shall scatter them beyond the river, because they have made their groves, provoking the Lord to anger.
Then Athaliah rent her clothes, and said, Treason, Treason.
Terrible reprisals were meted out to the rebels.
Shalmaneser's soldiers meanwhile wasted and burned cities without number, and carried away great booty.
Their armies had great mobility, being composed mostly of mounted infantry, and were not easily overpowered by the Assyrian forces of footmen and charioteers. Indeed, it was not until cavalry was included in the standing army of Assyria that operations against the Aramaeans were attended with permanent success.
As Shalmaneser was the first Assyrian king who came into direct touch with the hebrews, it will be of interest here to review the history of the divided kingdoms of Israel and Judah, as recorded in the Bible, because of the light it throws on international politics and the situation which confronted Shalmaneser in Mesopotamia and Syria in the early part of his reign.
Tribute poured in from the subject States.
When Ashur natsir pal approached Suru, a part of its population welcomed him.
In eight fifty four b c
The kingdom of Urartu was growing more and more powerful.
When Jehu of Israel died, he was succeeded by Jehoahaz.
In eight twenty nine b c the great empire was suddenly shaken to its foundations by the outbreak of civil war.
The Aramaeans of Mesopotamia gave much trouble to Ashur natsir pal. Although he had laid a heavy hand on Suru, the southern tribes, the Sukhi, stirred up revolts in Mesopotamia as the allies of the Babylonians.
He waged war against Israel, and Baasha was compelled to abandon the building of the fortifications at Ramah.
After reigning about twenty four years, Baasha of Israel died in eight eighty six b c and was succeeded by his son Elah who came to the throne "in the twenty and sixth year of Asa".
As the sun went down behind the low hills which separate the river from the desert-even their rocky sides had struggled to emulate the verdant clothing of the plain-its receding rays were gradually withdrawn, like a transparent veil of light from the landscape.
The sleepers open their eyes and raise themselves on their elbows.
There are traces of Phoenician influence in the art of this period.
For he took away the altars of the strange gods, and the high places, and brake down the images, and cut down the groves.
Then Jehu drew his bow and shot Joram through the heart.
The former had raided North Syria and apparently penetrated as far as the Mediterranean coast.
Judah and Israel thus became subject to Damascus, and had to recognize the king of that city as arbiter in all their disputes.
Also he took away out of all the cities of Judah the high places and the images: and the kingdom was quiet before him.
Jeroboam established the religion of the Canaanites and made "gods and molten images".
In eight forty three b c
Ere Jeroboam died, however, "Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the land was quiet ten years.
Ahab was evidently an ally of Sidon as well as a vassal of Damascus, for he married the notorious princess Jezebel, the daughter of the king of that city State.
The bleating of sheep and lowing of cattle, at first faint, became louder as the flocks returned from their pastures and wandered amongst the tents.
He devoted himself to the development of his kingdom, and attempted to revive the sea trade on the Persian gulf which had flourished under Solomon.
Assyrian art found expression in delineating the outward form rather than in striving to create a "thing of beauty" which is "a joy for ever".
And commanded Judah to seek the Lord God of their fathers and to do the law and the commandment.
Apparently Israel and Judah desired to throw off the yoke of Damascus, which was being kept constantly on the defence by Assyria.
The northern frontier of Assyria was continually menaced by groups of independent hill States which would have been irresistible had they operated together against a common enemy, but were liable to be extinguished when attacked in detail.
For the priest said, Slay her not in the house of the Lord.
Thereafter the Assyrian monarch turned towards the south-west and attacked the Hittite State of Hamath and the Aramaean State of Damascus.
In the north he had to drive back invading bands of the Muski.
The former, the rightful heir, appealed for help to Shalmaneser, and that monarch at once hastened to assert his authority in the southern kingdom.
Then the shepherd hears a warning voice which comes and goes like the wind, saying: "If the horn is blown once again, the world will be upset altogether".
Over the pure cloudless sky was the glow of the last light.
His chosen heir, Shamshi Adad the seventh, had to continue the struggle for the throne for two more years.
The resisting power of the Syrian allies, however, was being greatly weakened by internal revolts, which may have been stirred up by Assyrian emissaries.
Four years after Ahab began to reign, Asa died at Jerusalem and his son Jehoshaphat was proclaimed king of Judah.
The watchman on the tower of Jezreel saw Jehu and his company approaching and informed Joram, who twice sent out a messenger to enquire, "Is it peace?" Neither messenger returned, and the watchman informed the wounded monarch of Israel, "He came even unto them, and cometh not again; and the driving is like the driving of Jehu the son of Nimshi; for he driveth furiously".
These he disposed of with characteristic barbarity. Some were skinned alive and some impaled on stakes, while others were enclosed in a pillar which the king had erected to remind the Aramaeans of his determination to brook no opposition.
But the western allies soon gathered strength again, and in eight forty six b c he found it necessary to return with a great army, but was not successful in achieving any permanent success, although he put his enemies to flight.
"The children of Israel fled before Judah: and God delivered them into their hand.
He found it more profitable, indeed, to extend his territories into Asia Minor.
The Kurdish mountains, whose snowy summits cherished the dying sunbeams, yet struggled with the twilight.
He reigned only "seven days in Tirzah". The army was "encamped against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines.
Edom threw off the yoke of Judah and became independent.
"Its pasture lands, known as the 'Jaif', are renowned", he wrote, "for their rich and luxuriant herbage.
His sphere of influence was therefore confined to North Syria.
For over half a century after this disaster Babylonia was a province of Assyria.
For several years the great conqueror engaged himself in thus subduing rebellious tribes and extending his territory.
When the city of Kinabu was captured, no fewer than three thousand prisoners were burned alive, the unfaithful governor being flayed.
Still more distant, and still more indistinct, was a solitary hill overlooking the ancient city of Arbela.
Rehoboam was succeeded by his son Abijah, who shattered the power of Jeroboam, defeating that monarch in battle after he was surrounded as Rameses the second had been by the Hittite army.
In the following year Shalmaneser had to lead an expedition into northern Mesopotamia and suppress a fresh revolt in that troubled region.
After four years of civil war Shalmaneser died.
Artists and artisans were also provided by the vassals of Assyria.
Jehoram, who had married Athaliah, a royal princess of Israel, was dead.
King Joram went out himself to meet the famous charioteer, but turned to flee when he discovered that he came as an enemy.
One kingdom had its capital at Hamath and another at Carchemish on the Euphrates.
Thus the children of Israel were brought under at that time, and the children of Judah prevailed, because they relied upon the Lord God of their fathers.
And Abijah pursued after Jeroboam, and took cities from him, Bethel with the towns thereof, and Jeshanah with the towns thereof, and Ephraim with the towns thereof.
Like his father, Ashur natsir pal fought against the Muski, whose power was declining.
The Assyrian sculptures of this period lack the technical skill, the delicacy and imagination of Sumerian and Akkadian art, but they are full of energy, dignified and massive, and strong and lifelike.
Jehoshaphat did not again come into conflict with Damascus.
In eight fifty one b c
The Assyrian war lord, however, proved to be too powerful a rival.
Flowers of every hue enamelled the meadows; not thinly scattered over the grass as in northern climes, but in such thick and gathering clusters that the whole plain seemed a patchwork of many colours.
He was followed by his son Ahab, who ascended the throne "in the thirty and eighth year of Asa king of Judah....
He had come from the neighbouring Aramaean State of Bit Adini, and was preparing, it would appear, to form a powerful confederacy against the Assyrians.
The time seemed ripe for Assyrian conquest.
The Babylonian camp was captured, and the prisoners taken by the Assyrians included five thousand footmen, two hundred horsemen, and one hundred chariots
The city of Damdamusa was set on fire.
Judah was nominally subject to Egypt, which, however, was weakened by internal troubles, and therefore unable either to assert its authority in Judah or help its king to resist the advance of the Israelites.
The mountain and valley tribes in the north furnished in abundance wine and corn, sheep and cattle and horses, and from the Aramaeans of Mesopotamia and the Syro Cappadocian Hittites came much silver and gold, copper and lead, jewels and ivory, as well as richly decorated furniture, armour and weapons.
The Israelites issued forth from Samaria and scattered the attacking force.
In the evening, after the labour of the day, I often sat at the door of my tent, giving myself up to the full enjoyment of that calm and repose which are imparted to the senses by such scenes as these....
In consequence he came into conflict with Babylonia, but he ultimately formed an alliance with that kingdom.
No fewer than thirty two expeditions were recorded on his famous black obelisk.
The tribes round the shores of Lake Van had asserted themselves and extended their sphere of influence.
Marduk zakir shum afterwards reigned over Babylonia as the vassal of Assyria, and Shalmaneser, his overlord, made offerings to the gods at Babylon, Borsippa, and Cuthah.
"By cooling?"
"But when?"
"I think that we can answer," said Barbicane; "but according to my idea the question ought not to be put in that form.
There remains but one hypothesis, that of a living race to which motion, which is life, is foreign."
"Just so," said Barbicane, "which for us has no meaning."
I ask the honorable commission, if the moon is not habitable, has she ever been inhabited, Citizen Barbicane?"
Barbicane sought to restrain them.
"Here it is," continued Barbicane.
"I believe it," said Nicholl.
"Now," said Nicholl, "let us attack the second question, an indispensable complement of the first.
I ask it to be put differently."
"The hand is not necessary," answered Nicholl, not at all confounded; "and as to the stone, let us suppose it to be a comet."
"And I answer in the negative," continued Barbicane.
"Most probably."
"And why?" asked Nicholl quickly.
"Without a doubt!" answered Nicholl.
"Certainly."
The actual state of this cracked, twisted, and burst disc abundantly proves this.
"At the terrestrial poles they last six months," said Michel.
Instead he prayed for it.
"Make a sign to me, God," he cried.
"Four, five, six, seven," he said slowly, wetting his finger and making straight up and down marks on the window ledge.
As he talked his left eyelid twitched.
They both expected her to make trouble but were mistaken.
"Wake up, little animal.
"See, come here and look," cried the old man. "Grandfather Jesse's white mare has torn the black stocking she wears on her foot."
First there was the old thing in him.
"Take me away.
When he awoke at dawn the barnyard back of the house also awoke.
In the house people stirred about.
Imprudent, thrice imprudent!"
Stop!"
"Far from here?"
What the devil!
Not the least in the world."
"There, now!
The young man departed, laughing at the joke, which he thought he alone could comprehend.
That, I think, is as much as I shall want."
Is it not some bad affair?"
You must look out for yourself."
"You will take your musketoon and your pistols."
"But why this question?"
"And where is that letter?"
"And you found it?"
"What!
"Bah!"
"Well, then, I count on you."
"There again!
"Do you need money?"
"I?
"I promise it."
You are acquainted with the Scriptures?"
"I was sure of it-the cursed letter!"
"Above all things be always on your guard.
"Ah, that's quite another thing; but promise me, if you should not be killed tonight, that you will go tomorrow."
"Yes, go."
When I am happy, I wish all the world to be so; but it appears that is not possible."
"The devil!
"Where?"
"Not yet; wait a little!
"How?"
"What?"
"But of what sort?"
"Yes, but I thought perhaps you had worn out all your courage the first time."
"She gave it to me herself."
"Indeed!"
"Certainly."
"Bad, monsieur, bad!" replied the king; "I am bored."
"Good Lord!
Go, Monsieur Duke, and return often.
"No, bring me all four together.
They soon tired of the sport.
"Perfectly."
You accuse him, then?
Come in, Treville."
"Truly!"
The Guards of Monsieur the Cardinal are forever seeking quarrels with them, and for the honor of the corps even, the poor young men are obliged to defend themselves."
Let us see, for you know, my dear Captain, a judge must hear both sides."
"Quite contrite and repentant!
"Yes, sire, as they always do."
"What, then!
On guard!"
It was already too late.
"What?"
Poor cardinal!
In particular, there is one yonder of a Gascon look.
"Awaken me!
"Ah!
"Tomorrow, then, sire?"
Louis the thirteenth appeared, walking fast.
"I?
"With difficulty, but he can speak."
"Undoubtedly."
Speak, I am ready to obey."
"Yes, sire."
"Does he talk?"
"And how did the thing happen?
"How!
Justice before everything."
"Why, this is a victory!" cried the king, all radiant, "a complete victory!"
All creatures wish to live, and to perpetuate their species, of course; but those two wishes alone evidently do not carry any race far.
Whichever faculty you use, the other atrophies, and partly deserts you.
Their exhibitions of it may seem superb,--such power and such restraint, combined, are noble,--but a quality carried to excess defeats itself.
In addition to these, a race, to be great, needs some hunger, some itch, to spur it up the hard path we lately have learned to call evolution.
The lesson to be learned was simple: the reward was the rule of a planet. Yet only one species, our own, has ever had that much brains.
Some might be our friends.
It may have been their tolerance and patience that betrayed them. They wait too long before they resent an imposition or insult. Just as ants are too energetic and cats too shrewd for their own highest good, so the elephants suffer from too much patience.
seven
The pig is remarkably intelligent and brave,--but he's gross; and grossness delays one's achievement, it takes so much time.
Race by race they have been slaughtered.
By a master passion, I mean a passion that is really your master: some appetite which habitually, day in, day out, makes its subjects forget fatigue or danger, and sacrifice their ease to its gratification.
Such creatures sentence themselves to be captives, by their lack of ambition.
And when they saw that they hadn't, and that the monkey men were getting ahead, were they too great minded and decent to exterminate their puny rivals?
The rhinoceros cares little for adaptability.
Why don't we all die or give up when we're sick of the world?
Wolves, whales, crows?
They have more spirit.
Loving us, they let us stop their developing in tune with their natures; and they've patiently tried ever since to adopt ways of ours.
When an elephant plucks off a branch and swishes his flanks, and thus keeps away insects, he is using a tool.
If super snake men had had banquets they would have been too vast to describe.
Think of the long epochs that passed before it entered our heads.
All species must surrender unconditionally-those are our terms-and come and live in barns alongside us; or on us, as parasites.
We are trying to use both.
But we still don't know which has the more value.
We keep them all terrorized.
We don't wish it.
We have been considering which species was on the whole most finely equipped to be rulers, and thereafter achieve a high civilization; but that wasn't the problem.
endless interest in one's environment?
eight
Because the love of life is reenforced, in most energized beings, by some longing that pushes them forward, in defeat and in darkness.
If we had been as strong as the elephants, we might have been kinder. When great power comes naturally to people, it is used more urbanely. We use it as parvenus do, because that's what we are.
Goats, then?
"We attain no power over nature till we learn natural laws, and our lordship depends on the adroitness with which we learn and conform."
What was it then, that put them out of the race?
And we have betrayed them by making under simians of them.
That is the kind of hold that curiosity has on the monkeys.
Adaptability is what we depend on. We talk of our mastery of nature, which sounds very grand; but the fact is we respectfully adapt ourselves first, to her ways.
They've been true to us, yes, but they haven't been true to themselves.
Some had over trustful characters, like the seals; or exploitable characters, like cows, and chickens, and sheep.
He slogs through the world.
If he once became a conscious user of tools he would of course go much further.
A tool, in the most primitive sense, is any object, lying around, that can obviously be used as an instrument for this or that purpose.
To use tools involves using reason, instead of sticking to instinct. Now, sticking to instinct has its disadvantages, but so has using reason.
They have done it, too; but of course they can't get far: it's not their own road.
He was plastic, too.
Kings who won't lift their scepters must yield in the end; and, the worst of it is, to upstarts who snatch at their crowns.
With us is it curiosity?
The creatures that want to live a life of their own, we call wild.
The elephant, being born to it, is easy going, confident, tolerant.
Each little snake family could have eaten a herd of cattle at Christmas.
It is not necessarily stupid however, to fail to use tools.
Adroitness however is merely an ability to win; back of it there must be some spur to make us use our adroitness.
Isn't it strange?
But we! we are experts.
There are many other beasts that one might once have thought had a chance.
Wiser even than the lion, or the wisest of apes, his wisdom furthermore was benign where theirs was sinister. Consider his dignity, his poise and skill.
Some, like horses and deer, were not bold enough; or were stupid, like buffaloes.
He had the best chance of all.
It is not that we have planned this deliberately: but they know what we're like.
Ant reformers, if there were any, might lay this to their property sense, and talk of abolishing property as a cure for the evil.
Because this yeast is in us there may be great and undreamed of possibilities awaiting mankind; but because of our line of descent there are also queer limitations.
"Yes," I said, "those for example are distinctively simian.
Seeds become trees, and weak little nations grow great. But the push or the force that is doing this, the yeast as it were, has to work in and on certain definite kinds of material.
Their smallness of size was not necessarily too much of a handicap.
But we must remember this is a simian comment.
To our eyes they seem too orderly, for instance.
The scientists speak of their paved streets, vaulted halls, their hundreds of different domesticated animals, their pluck and intelligence, their individual initiative, their chaste and industrious lives.
Why should you feel disappointment at something inevitable?" And I went on to argue that it wasn't as though we were descended from eagles for instance, instead of (broadly speaking) from ape like or monkeyish beings.
Familiar with the ways of evolution elsewhere in the universe, we naturally should have wondered what course it would take on this earth.
There certainly seems to be a power at work in the world, by virtue of which every living thing grows and develops.
But this would have run against their strongest instincts.
Darwin said the ant's brain was "one of the most marvelous atoms in the world, perhaps more so than the brain of man"--yes, of present day man, who for thousands and thousands of years has had so much more chance to develop his brain....
But they carry it so far, they have few or no political rights. An ant doesn't have the vote, apparently: he just has his duties.
What could you expect?
Still-those frowsy, unlovely hordes of apes and monkeys were so completely lacking in signs of kingship; they were so flighty, too, in their ways, and had so little purpose, and so much love for absurd and idle chatter, that they would have struck us, we thought, as unlikely material.
Ingenious.
They could have made poison their weapon for the subjugation of rivals. And in these orderly insects there are obviously a capacity for labor, and co-operative labor at that, which could carry them far. We all know that they have a marked genius: great gifts of their own.
Reason is seldom or never the ruler: it is the servant of instinct.
Repressively so.
When we think of these creatures as little men (which is all wrong of course) we see they have their faults.
Probably not.
And it tends toward splendor.
And the ants commit atrocities in and after their battles that are-I wish I could truly say-inhuman.
Which group, we'd have wondered, would ever contrive to rule all the rest?
The instincts of the species that you and I belong to are of an opposite kind; and that makes it hard for us to judge ants fairly.
The custom of plunder seems to be a part of most of their wars.
For more information, or to volunteer, please visit librivox dot org.
In a civilization of super ants or bees, there would have been no problem of the hungry unemployed, no poverty, no unstable government, no riots, no strikes for short hours, no derision of eugenics, no thieves, perhaps no crime at all.
Raids, ferocious combats, and loot are part of an ant's regular life.
All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
In those distant invisible epochs before men existed, before even the proud missing link strutted around through the woods (little realizing how we his greatgrandsons would smile wryly at him much as our own descendants may shudder at us, ages hence) the various animals were desperately competing for power.
But conversely, ants are absolutely unselfish within the community. They are skilful.
Being of simian stock, we had simian traits. Our development naturally bore the marks of our origin.
Certain groups sought the headship.
w n p Barbellion.
I take a jealous pride in my Simian ancestry.
Many strange forgotten dynasties rose, met defiance, and fell. In the end it was our ancestors who won, and became simian kings, and bequeathed a whole planet to us-and have never been thanked for it.
But considering our simian descent, it has done very well.
This quality may have something to do with their having groups wars. The egotism of their individual spirits is allowed scant expression, so the egotism of the groups is extremely ferocious and active.
Such traits, we should have reminded ourselves, persist.
And instead of merely struggling with Nature for it, they also fight other ants.
"Toil has brought you up from the ruck of things." Reason would have plausibly said, "it's by virtue of feverish toil that you have become what you are.
Or who-unconsciously-still let it color their thinking.
As for me, I am proud of my close kinship with other animals.
It was a mild afternoon and great crowds of people were out. Sunday afternoon crowds.
They are not easily left behind, even after long stages; and they form a terrible obstacle to all high advancement.
The ant is knowing and wise; but he doesn't know enough to take a vacation. The worshipper of energy is too physically energetic to see that he cannot explore certain higher fields until he is still.
They were not going anywhere,--they were just strolling up and down, staring at each other, and talking. There were thousands and thousands of them.
They couldn't or didn't live as equals.
Even if such a race had somehow achieved self consciousness and reason, would they have been able therewith to rule their instincts, or to stop work long enough to examine themselves, or the universe, or to dream of any noble development?
This has gone on for ages among them, and continues today.
Their ways are more fixed than those of the old Egyptians, and their industry is painful to think of, it's hyper Chinese.
"Even in this out of the way corner of the Cosmos," we might have reflected, "and on this tiny star, it may be of interest to consider the trend of events." We should have tried to appraise the different species as they wandered around, each with its own set of good and bad characteristics.
Ants are good citizens: they place group interests first.
At the time of his death in eighteen ninety seven, he was a lecturer in the Yale Law School, and member of the Supreme Court of Errors.
He was later made colonel of a colored regiment, and served with credit in that capacity.
In fact, to have passed the tests of so fierce a course of education gives them a title to a place thus apart.
Enough has been told of what it did to furnish grounds for deducing what it was; but to deal with the regiment on the personal side is hardly possible within the limits of such a sketch as this, though it is a matter that cannot be entirely passed by.
Though the large addition to its numbers which the increase in size necessitated made it perhaps somewhat less homogeneous than at first, it did not greatly alter its essential characteristics.
Corporal Francis j Young entered the Yale Medical School before the war, and returned after its close to take his degree in eighteen sixty six.
It was made up of men of almost all conditions of life and of widely different ages, though naturally with young men in a large majority; of mechanics from the Housatonic and Naugatuck valleys, and farmers' boys from the hills; of men of education and men of none.
As a whole, the regiment was a body thoroughly representative not only of the army of which it was a fraction, an army as has been often said unlike any other the world has known, but also of the population from which it was drawn.
The names of men of every sort and kind are found upon the rolls.
Judge Augustus h Fenn, Major and Brevet Colonel, came back from the war, having lost an arm at Cedar Creek, to take a course in the Law School at Harvard, and Yale made him a Master of Arts in eighteen eighty nine.
At the time of the regiment's formation he was conducting an academy in Goshen, and was enlisted as captain of a company which he had been active in recruiting.
Corporal Edward c Hopson, a graduate of Trinity in eighteen sixty four, was killed at Cedar Creek.
Surgeon Henry Plumb, and Assistant Surgeons Robert g Hazzard and john w Lawton were all graduates of the Yale Medical School, in the classes of eighteen sixty one, eighteen sixty two, and eighteen fifty nine.
Any body of men-a college class, a legislature, a regiment-is in character what its component members make it; in this case there was the material, which, furnished with worthy leadership-and it unquestionably had that-made up the organization whose not uneventful existence has been described.
He was later connected with a church college in Missouri, where he died in eighteen ninety eight.
He was captain in a New York regiment in the early part of the war, and became afterward superintendent of the Buffalo State Hospital, and a recognized authority on insanity before his death in eighteen ninety four.
Captain George s Williams, of New Milford, was a member of the class of eighteen fifty two at Yale for a time, and received a degree from Trinity in eighteen fifty five.
Sergeant Garwood r Merwin, who had been a member of the class of eighteen sixty four at Yale, died at Alexandria in eighteen sixty three.
Sergeant Romulus c Loveridge, who had been entered in the class of eighteen sixty five at Yale, received a commission in a colored regiment.
Adjutant Theodore f Vaill, the historian of the regiment, was a student before the war at Union College, but did not graduate.
Sergeant Theodore c Glazier was a graduate of Trinity in the class of eighteen sixty, and was a tutor there when he enlisted.
Colonel Mackenzie graduated at West Point in eighteen sixty two, but he was never a resident of the county, or of Connecticut, and his only connection with either was through his commission from Governor Buckingham.
Lieutenant Colonel Nathaniel Smith of Woodbury entered the Yale Law School in the class of eighteen fifty three, but did not graduate.
reverend James Deane, Captain and Brevet Major, was a graduate of Williams in the class of eighteen fifty seven.
A large part of these men came back after their service ended to resume the peaceful life of citizenship, and every town among us has known some of them ever since among its leading figures, while some in quarters far distant have also attained to honors and responsibilities, as the records show.
He was pastor of the Congregational church at East Canaan when the regiment was organized, and was one of its recruiting officers.
Major james q Rice, who was killed at Winchester, was a member of the class of eighteen fifty at Wesleyan, and received from that institution the degree of Master of Arts in eighteen fifty five.
A number of the officers and men were college graduates when they enlisted, and others gained degrees after the war ended; the list which follows is, however, necessarily incomplete; in fact, an absolutely correct list is no doubt hopelessly impossible.
The university man of to day, as the burden of the baccalaureate sermons so frequently testifies, is consigned to a special place of responsibility in life because of his training; these men surely earned one of special honor by reason of theirs, which was, too, not like the other, preparation alone, but also fulfilment.
Captain William h Lewis junior, studied after the war at the Berkeley Divinity School, and has been for many years rector of saint John's Church in Bridgeport.
--The duce take it! said my uncle Toby.
By all that is priestly!
The best men in the world, those who have made the greatest real successes look back with serene happiness on their failures.
Whether man has had wealth or poverty, failure or success, counts for little when it is past.
But their failure to transmute the baser metals into gold resulted in the birth of chemistry.
When the novel craft neared New York and success seemed assured, a terrible storm arose.
It is experience leading man to higher things; it is the revelation of a way, a path hitherto unknown to us.
Failure is one of God's educators.
His brush strokes, put on in the early morning hours before going to his menial duties as a railway porter, in the dusk like that perpetuated on his canvas,--meant strength, food and medicine for the dying wife he adored.
In discovering America Columbus failed absolutely.
May this not be one of Nature's gentle showings to man of the times when he grows best, of the darkness of failure that is evolving into the sunlight of success.
The chief of the Hydrographic Department at Washington heard of the failure of the experiment, and at once sent word to shipmasters the world over, urging them to watch carefully for these logs which he described; and to note the precise location of each in latitude and longitude and the time the observation was made.
In the fury of the tempest, the iron bands snapped like icicles and the angry waters scattered the logs far and wide.
Failure is often the turning point, the pivot of circumstance that swings us to higher levels.
If that trial or deprivation has left me better, truer, nobler, then,--poverty has been riches, failure has been a success.
His glorious failure to reach China opened a whole continent to light and truth.
When David Livingstone had supplemented his theological education by a medical course, he was ready to enter the missionary field.
As we trace each one, back, step by step, through the genealogy of circumstances, we will see how logical has been the course of our joy and success, from sorrow and failure, and that what gives us most happiness to day is inextricably connected with what once caused us sorrow.
Our highest hopes, are often destroyed to prepare us for better things. The failure of the caterpillar is the birth of the butterfly; the passing of the bud is the becoming of the rose; the death or destruction of the seed is the prelude to its resurrection as wheat.
The rocky way may prove safer than the slippery path of smoothness.
For over three years he had studied tirelessly, with all energies concentrated on one aim,--to spread the gospel in China.
Let us fear only the failure of not living the right as we see it, leaving the results to the guardianship of the Infinite.
The art failure that cast him into the depths of poverty unified with marvellous intensity all the finer elements of his nature.
High ideals, noble efforts will make seeming failures but trifles, they need not dishearten us; they should prove sources of new strength.
The masterpieces of Scotch historic fiction that have thrilled, entertained and uplifted millions of his fellow men are a glorious monument on the field of a seeming failure.
Hundreds of reports were made, covering a period of weeks and months.
Life is a successive unfolding of success from failure.
There is but one question for him to answer, to face boldly and honestly as an individual alone with his conscience and his destiny:
This rare spiritual unity, this purging of all the dross of triviality as he passed through the furnace of poverty, trial, and sorrow gave eloquence to his brush and enabled him to paint as never before,--as no prosperity would have made possible.
The loss of the Joggins raft was not a real failure, for it led to one of the great discoveries in modern marine geography and navigation.
These observations were then carefully collated, systematized and tabulated, and discoveries were made as to the course of ocean currents that otherwise would have been impossible.
It ofttimes requires heroic courage to face fruitless effort, to take up the broken strands of a life work, to look bravely toward the future, and proceed undaunted on our way.
Then word came from China that the "opium war" would make it folly to attempt to enter the country.
Some years ago, it was proposed to send logs from Canada to New York, by a new method.
But the discovery of America was a greater success than was any finding of a "back door" to India.
His ingenious reasoning and experiment led him to believe that by sailing westward he would reach India.
Many of our failures sweep us to greater heights of success, than we ever hoped for in our wildest dreams.
But what, to our eyes, may seem hopeless failure is often but the dawning of a greater success.
Birds cannot fly best with the wind but against it; ships do not progress in calm, when the sails flap idly against the unstrained masts.
The turning of the face of Time shows all things in a wondrously illuminated and satisfying perspective.
The failure spurred him to almost super human effort.
This was the success of failure, a wondrous process of Nature for the highest growth,--a mighty lesson of comfort, strength, and encouragement if man would only realize and accept it.
His study proved an ideal preparation for his labors as physician, explorer, teacher and evangel in the wilds of Africa.
Many a man is thankful to day that some petty success for which he once struggled, melted into thin air as his hand sought to clutch it. Failure is often the rock bottom foundation of real success.
Hundreds of captains, sailing over the waters of the earth, noted the logs, in the Atlantic Ocean, in the Mediterranean, in the South Seas- for into all waters did these venturesome ones travel.
If we think of any supreme moment of our lives, any great success, any one who is dear to us, and then consider how we reached that moment, that success, that friend, we will be surprised and strengthened by the revelation.
The ingenious plan of mr Joggins was to bind great logs together by cables and iron girders and to tow the cargo as a raft.
It may not be financial success, it may not be fame; it may be new draughts of spiritual, moral or mental inspiration that will change us for all the later years of our life. Life is not really what comes to us, but what we get from it.
"How will I let that poverty or wealth affect me?
Disappointment and failure did not long daunt him; he offered himself as missionary to Africa,--and he was accepted.
Not just any words, but words which "ring a bell" or tap the experiential background of the subject.
This is a legitimate use of regression although it is not used so much these days to uncover past traumatic incidents.
Mesmer, an eighteenth century physician, believed that hypnosis occurred as a result of "vital fluids" drawn from a magnet or lodestone and which drew their unique qualities from the sun, moon and stars.
It is enough for them to know it has been harnessed for their use.
There are many more theories I believe are partially correct, but the ones named will do for the purposes of this volume.
In conclusion, the author would like to take issue with those who believe that it is the monotonous intonations of the therapist that cause the subject to lapse from the deeply relaxed state into true sleep.
He also believes that the psychological process operates through transference.
dr Kroger, like a few others, has proved to his own satisfaction that all hypnotic phenomena can be produced at a non hypnotic level.
Some pioneers, notably dr William s Kroger, a psychiatrically oriented obstetrician and gynecologist who limits his practice to hypnotherapy, believe hypnosis is a conviction phenomenon which produces results that parallel the phenomena produced at Lourdes and other religious healing shrines.
This theory is bolstered by the fact that all schools of psychotherapy yield approximately the same results even though the methods differ.
This is a logical conclusion and it disperses any ideas that hypnotic patients become dependent on their therapists.
Both names loom large in the history of hypnosis.
Pin point concentration is given as the reason for this selective procedure which narrows the horizon of the subject to what the hypnotist (or he, himself) is saying, screening out all other stimuli. But why is this high order of concentration so easy under hypnosis when Asians, notably the Chinese, have been trying for centuries to concentrate on one subject for as long as four or five seconds.
Probably the most widely held theory is that hypnosis is a transference phenomenon in which the prestige of the hypnotist and his relationship to the subject plays an important role.
Physiologically, Wolberg believes that hypnosis represents an inhibition of the higher cortical centers, and a limitation of sensory channels such as takes place in sleep.
This would logically indicate that the relationship between the therapist and the subject was the determining factor.
He has written that the organism functions differently on various levels of behavior (regression), and that the behavior breaks down into component parts. The theory that regression can spotlight personality disorders found in more infantile states is also widely held.
Milton v Kline, professor of psychology at Long Island University, postulates that hypnosis is primarily retrogressive.
Actually, regression, by duplicating the exact earlier age, manner of speech and thought, etc, makes us once more as little children, a condition to be desired for certain forms of therapy.
Activity of the cerebrum, which controls the conscious and voluntary system, is rendered non operational.
The former (Mesmer) thought further that metal became imbued by the solar qualities, and his system is also known as metalogy by which he meant the proper application of metals.
His formula is that faith, hope, belief and expectation, all catalyzed by the imagination, lead inevitably to hypnosis.
Hypnotists are much like those who use electricity every day of their lives, but have no idea of the nature of electricity.
The most that can be done at this time is to explore various views which are held by leading authorities at present. It can be said, however, that a majority of authorities agree that hypnosis ensues as a result of natural laws which have been incorporated in the human organism since the beginning of man as he is today.
This is excellent as far as it goes, but it does not explain how suggestion works.
Others agree that it is a transference process, but that it is more of an extension of the subject's own psychic processes which is enlarged to include the voice of the hypnotist or his own thoughts or voice.
Chapter twelve
If there is one thing virtually certain about hypnosis it is that some parts of the brain are inhibited and other parts expanded by the process.
This is why "sleep" continues to be in the lexicon of the hypnotist even though hypnosis is the antithesis of sleep.
We do not know the mechanics of this metamorphosis of an ordinary brain into an organ of concentrated power.
The Nature of Hypnosis
Another widely held theory is that hypnosis is a state of dissociation, meaning that it constitutes a group of unconscious memories and activities which may be dredged up to replace the stream of consciousness.
One of the newer theories-one held by dr Lewis r Wolberg, a psychoanalyst-is that hypnosis is a psychosomatic process in that it is both physiological and psychological in character.
Naturally, these theories have been largely abandoned today, although there are still a few who think that hypnosis is a form of hysteria.
A large number of hypnotists, including the author, has come to believe that hypnosis is a semantic problem in which words are the building blocks to success.
This is the crux of the hypnotic dilemma and the answer is far from solved.
This fits in perfectly, of course, with the author's already discussed visual imagery technique which requires a high degree of imagination.
On the other hand, we know that a strong interpersonal relationship is necessary for hypnosis.
Words, of course, would be of little use without the added effect of his conditioned reflexology.
Others, primarily Europeans, have pointed out the analogy between the hypnotic state of animals and man.
It is implied that the process may be atavistic.
Automaticism, of course, is inherently part of this view, and is presumed to negate volition.
In the opening chapter of the book, I explained that hypnosis was a state of heightened suggestion in which the subject adopted an uncritical attitude, allowing him to accept suggestions and to take appropriate action.
Along the last named line, I believe that hypnotic suggestions have an autonomy of their own which supersede all else in the hypnotic situation.
Keep away from sad people, or you will be sad.
Adjust it until you do like it.
A quarrel between two people to settle things, is a good deal like a dog fight in a flower bed, the only things that get settled are the flowers.
Grow something, create something, produce something and the law of youth will pervade your Being.
Then begin to talk about it.
Develop it and it will develop you. Quicken your mental throb with new ideas.
Good cheer attracts good luck. Cheer up.
"A merry heart doeth good, like a medicine." To forget your sorrow begin to cultivate joy.
Think cheerfully.
Think its time to droop.
I will increase it unto the Perfect Day." Grow in each day, and make each day grow.
Put irresistible confidence, "I SHALL ACHIEVE," into your ardent desires. You will then love work.
Check discord.
It is fresh from the hand of God.
Rebuild destroyed tissue. Keep the system free of waste.
"Let thine heart cheer thee." Give it out let.
Fifteenth row:--Make one, knit two, knit two together, knit one, make one, knit five, make one, knit one, knit two together, asterisk knit two together, knit one, make one, knit five, make one, knit one, knit two together, and repeat from asterisk, knit those left at the end.
Tenth row:--Seamed, making one at the beginning.
Twenty first row same as eleventh.
Cast on three stitches; increase at the beginning of each row till you have twelve.
Sixth row:--Seamed, making one at the beginning.
First pattern row:--Make one, knit two together, knit three, make one, knit one, make one, knit three, knit two together, knit one, make one.
Second row:--Seamed, making a stitch at the beginning.
Third row:--Make one, knit one, knit two together, knit two, make one, knit three, make one, knit two, knit two together, knit two.
This may either be done in Shetland or German wool, and is very pretty in black Shetland wool.
Sixteenth row:--Seamed, make one at the beginning.
Seventh row:--Make one, knit three, knit two together, make one, knit seven, make one, knit two together, knit four.
Eighteenth row:--Seamed, make one at the beginning.
Nineteenth row:--Make one, knit five, make one, knit three, knit two together, knit four, make one, knit two together, make one, knit three, knit two together, knit four, make one, knit the rest.
Fifth row:--Make one, knit two, knit two together, knit one, make one, knit five, make one, knit one, knit two together, knit three.
Ninth row:--Make one, knit five, make one, knit three, knit two together, knit four, make one, and knit the remainder.
Fourteenth row:--Seamed, make one at the beginning.
Nature, who had accepted me for ally, cared little who had the world's biscuits, and assuredly was not going to let any friend of hers waste his time in playing policeman for Society.
To day why not I, the trickster, the hypocrite?
Earth to earth!
As a rule this sort of thing struck me as the most pitiful tomfoolery.
Bill's coveted booty, too, I could easily guess at that; it came from the Vicar's store of biscuits, kept (as I knew) in a cupboard along with his official trappings.
"Take me for guide to day," he seemed to plead.
She panted up anon, and dropped on the turf beside me.
Harold, it further appeared, greatly coveting tadpoles, and top heavy with the eagerness of possession, had fallen into the pond. This, in itself, was nothing; but on attempting to sneak in by the back door, he had rendered up his duckweed bedabbled person into the hands of an aunt, and had been promptly sent off to bed; and this, on a holiday, was very much.
From forth the vestry window projected two small legs, gyrating, hungry for foothold, with larceny-not to say sacrilege-in their every wriggle: a godless sight for a supporter of the Establishment.
"Why, there aren't any good lions," said Harold, hastily.
Humanity would have rejected it with scorn, Nature, everywhere singing in the same key, recognised and accepted it without a flicker of dissent.
Like a black pirate flag on the blue ocean of air, a hawk hung ominous; then, plummet wise, dropped to the hedgerow, whence there rose, thin and shrill, a piteous voice of squealing.
Further on, a hedgehog lay dead athwart the path-nay, more than dead; decadent, distinctly; a sorry sight for one that had known the fellow in more bustling circumstances.
"Oh yes, there are, heaps and heaps," contradicted Edward.
"Where's Harold;" I asked presently.
So we sheered off together, arm in arm, so to speak; and with fullest confidence I took the jigging, thwartwise course my chainless pilot laid for me.
"Come on and let's be surprised." But I could not help feeling that on this day of days even a grizzly felt misplaced and common.
For them the orchard (a place elf haunted, wonderful!) simply produced so many apples and cherries: or it didn't, when the failures of Nature were not infrequently ascribed to us.
Looking back to those days of old, ere the gate shut behind me, I can see now that to children with a proper equipment of parents these things would have worn a different aspect.
Perhaps, indeed, it was one of their best qualities that they spent the greater part of their time stuffily indoors.
A saddening doubt, a dull suspicion, creeps over me.
To be sure, there was an exception in the curate, who would receive unblenching the information that the meadow beyond the orchard was a prairie studded with herds of buffalo, which it was our delight, moccasined and tomahawked, to ride down with those whoops that announce the scenting of blood.
SIR THOMAS BROWNE
But was the matter allowed to end there? I trow not.
These elders, our betters by a trick of chance, commanded no respect, but only a certain blend of envy-of their good luck-and pity-for their inability to make use of it.
The Olympians are all past and gone.
Then brute force was pitilessly applied.
Tidings had been sent to the shipowners at Hamburg by some of the survivors, and telegraphed at once by Franz to his uncle.
Mrs Jo refused to believe it, stoutly insisting that Emil would outlive any storm and yet turn up safe and gay.
Emil's ship is lost, and as yet no news of him.'
I must get over this first.
Teddy stood on his head literally, and tore about the neighbourhood on Octoo, like a second Paul Revere-only his tidings were good.
Yet his success was far greater than Nat's, though only God and one good man saw it.
There was great scrubbing and dusting among the matrons as they set their houses in order not only for Class Day, but to receive the bride and groom, who were to come to them for the honeymoon trip.
'Please tell it at once.
When he thought of it Dan felt as if he could not wait, but must burst that narrow cell and fly away, as the caddis worms he used to watch by the brookside shed their stony coffins, to climb the ferns and soar into the sky.
"What's that, Bre'r Rabbit?
"I know!" he panted.
This passage ran between polished pillars of some white veined substance of deep ultramarine, and along it came the sound of human movements, and voices and a deep undeviating droning note.
He sat, now fully awake, listening alertly, forgetting the viands in his attention.
The movement of his head involved a perception of extreme physical weakness.
Did it matter, seeing he was so wretched?
He poured out and partially drank another glass of the colourless fluid.
About his arm-and he saw with a shock that his skin was strangely dry and yellow-was bound a curious apparatus of rubber, bound so cunningly that it seemed to pass into his skin above and below.
He could see no one, and after a period of hesitation scrambled off the translucent mattress and tried to stand on the clean white floor of his little apartment.
What was this place?--this place that to his senses seemed subtly quivering like a thing alive?
The passage ran down a cool vista of blue and purple and ended remotely in a railed space like a balcony brightly lit and projecting into a space of haze, a space like the interior of some gigantic building.
He remembered now that he had wanted to sleep.
Then with a shock he remembered that he was naked, and casting about him for covering, saw a long black robe thrown on one of the chairs beside him.
CHAPTER three
What a wonderfully complex thing!
He tried to think where he might be.
But where?
THE AWAKENING
It went up beyond the top of his eyes.
The pilgrimage towards a personal being seemed to traverse vast gulfs, to occupy epochs.
Clearly he had slept, and had been removed in his sleep.
He moved his head slightly, following the contour of this shape.
He reeled out into the general space of the hall, greatly astonished.
The apartment lost none of its size and magnificence now that the greenish transparency that had intervened was removed.
And who were those people, the distant crowd beyond the deep blue pillars?
He heard some indistinct shrill cry, and abruptly these three men began laughing.
He supposed he was in bed in the hotel at the place in the valley-but he could not recall that white edge.
The colour of his thoughts was a dark depression.
The riddle of his surroundings was confusing but his mind was quite clear-evidently his sleep had benefited him.
He caught at the table to save himself, knocking one of the glasses to the floor-it rang but did not break-and sat down in one of the armchairs.
He must have slept.
He put out a languid hand to reach his watch from the chair whereon it was his habit to place it, and touched some smooth hard surface like glass.
The slightly greenish tint of the glass like substance which surrounded him on every hand obscured what lay behind, but he perceived it was a vast apartment of splendid appearance, and with a very large and simple white archway facing him.
He recalled the cliff and Waterfall again, and then recollected something about talking to a passer by....
Boscastle?
Then came a panorama of dazzling unstable confluent scenes....
The tumult of voices rose now loud and clear, and on the balcony and with their backs to him, gesticulating and apparently in animated conversation, were three figures, richly dressed in loose and easy garments of bright soft colourings.
There was a distinct impression, too, of a momentous conversation, of a name-he could not tell what name-that was subsequently to recur, of some queer long forgotten sensation of vein and muscle, of a feeling of vast hopeless effort, the effort of a man near drowning in darkness.
His mind was still a surging perplexity.
This was so unexpected that it startled him extremely.
The noise of a great multitude of people poured up over the balcony, and once it seemed the top of a banner passed, and once some brightly coloured object, a pale blue cap or garment thrown up into the air perhaps, flashed athwart the space and fell.
And as it happens to most of us after the night's sleep, so it was with Graham at the end of his vast slumber.
In the corner of the case was a stand of glittering and delicately made apparatus, for the most part quite strange appliances, though a maximum and minimum thermometer was recognisable.
He realised that he was intensely hungry.
The mattress was partly transparent, a fact he observed with a sense of insecurity, and below it was a mirror reflecting him greyly.
Suddenly Graham's knees bent beneath him, his arm against the pillar collapsed limply, he staggered forward and fell upon his face.
He was not in a bed at all as he understood the word, but lying naked on a very soft and yielding mattress, in a trough of dark glass.
The shouts sounded like English, there was a reiteration of "Wake!"
When he had a little recovered he filled the remaining glass from the bottle and drank-a colourless liquid it was, but not water, with a pleasing faint aroma and taste and a quality of immediate support and stimulus.
How long had he slept?
He rubbed his eyes.
Gigantic dreams that were terrible realities at the time, left vague perplexing memories, strange creatures, strange scenery, as if from another planet.
He put down the vessel and looked about him.
He would have called out, but only a little sound came into his throat. Then he stood up, and, with the uncertain steps of a drunkard, made his way towards the archway.
It was something white, the edge of something, a frame of wood.
He staggered down the steps, tripped on the corner of the black cloak he had wrapped about himself, and saved himself by catching at one of the blue pillars.
Graham became aware that his eyes were open and regarding some unfamiliar thing.
The archway he saw led to a flight of steps, going downward without the intermediation of a door, to a spacious transverse passage.
He turned his eyes full of merriment along the passage.
He had miscalculated his strength, however, and staggered and put his hand against the glass like pane before him to steady himself.
What was that sound of pattering feet?
And that rise and fall, like the murmur of breakers on pebbles?
Beyond and remote were vast and vague architectural forms.
This he wrapped about him and sat down again, trembling.
And this bed was placed in a case of greenish coloured glass (as it seemed to him), a bar in the white framework of which had first arrested his attention.
A dim cloud of sensation taking shape, a cloudy dreariness, and he found himself vaguely somewhere, recumbent, faint, but alive.
"Beat, beat," that sweeping shadow had a note of its own in the subdued tumult that filled the air.
He felt the featureless misery of one who wakes towards the hour of dawn.
He had an uncertain sense of whispers and footsteps hastily receding.
this simple seeming unity-the self! Who can trace its reintegration as morning after morning we awaken, the flux and confluence of its countless factors interweaving, rebuilding, the dim first stirrings of the soul, the growth and synthesis of the unconscious to the subconscious, the subconscious to dawning consciousness, until at last we recognise ourselves again.
Close to the walls of the cage were articles of furniture, a table covered with a silvery cloth, silvery like the side of a fish, a couple of graceful chairs, and on the table a number of dishes with substances piled on them, a bottle and two glasses.
An awakening came.
The other two turned swiftly at his exclamation and stood motionless.
Quite suddenly he rolled over, stared for a moment, and struggled into a sitting position.
The effort was unexpectedly difficult, and it left him giddy and weak-and amazed.
He looked about him at the clean and beautiful form of the apartment, unstained by ornament, and saw that the roof was broken in one place by a circular shaft full of light, and, as he looked, a steady, sweeping shadow blotted it out and passed, and came again and passed.
Their faces assumed an expression of consternation, an expression that deepened into awe.
For a moment it resisted his hand, bending outward like a distended bladder, then it broke with a slight report and vanished-a pricked bubble.
"It does not signify in the least.
"Oh, mr Reginald, is that you?" said old mrs Hopkins taking the card.
He had come there ardently wishing that she might be allowed to go to his aunt, and resolved that he would take her himself if it were possible.
That was the name I heard up there.
I can explain it all to her and she will understand me." She hardly meant to reproach him.
If the old lady had altogether kept Mary it might have been very well; but she had not done so and mrs Masters had more than once said that that kind of thing must be all over;--meaning that Mary was to drop her intimacy with high born people that were of no real use.
But now he almost thought that she had better not go.
It was mr Gotobed who had just returned from a visit which he had made, the circumstances of which must be narrated in the next chapter.
"What do you mean by that, mr Morton?" she asked blushing up to her hair.
He was of course altogether unconscious what grand things his cousin john had intended to do by him, had not the Honourable old lady interfered; but he had made up his mind that duty required him to call at the house.
But he felt that she had reproached him.
"You don't think that, mr Morton."
Because Lady Ushant is kind to me I needn't expect other people to be so." Reginald Morton was of course the "other people."
A FIT COMPANION,--FOR ME AND MY SISTERS.
"But you went back with-that other man."
"Why not go?"
"Would you like to go?"
What was I to do?
"She was writing to me and she put this under cover.
But as you were too grand for our friend of course you were too grand for us."
"I am mr john Morton's cousin."
"I did so long," he said, "to walk round the old place with you the other day before these people came there, and I was so disappointed when you would not come with me."
"I didn't say so at all."
After that he walked straight out to Bragton.
So he walked by the path across the bridge and when he came out on the gravel road near the front door he found a gentleman smoking a cigar and looking around him.
"I don't think it will be possible, mr Morton."
I am so glad."
"Perhaps you can let me know.
"I don't say that.
I only want Lady Ushant to understand that if I could possibly go to her I would rather do that than anything else in the world.
"How should I not like to go?
Lady Ushant is my dearest, dearest friend.
"mr Morton, sir, I think is out with the ladies, taking a drive."
Then he paused a moment.
"I will leave a card then."
"I have brought you a letter from my aunt," he said.
I know what it contains.
"I was coming."
Reginald lifted his hat and assented.
If she meant to marry mr Twentyman what good could she get by associating with his aunt or with him?
Ever since that walk her mind had been troubled by ideas as to what he would think about her, and now he was telling her what he thought.
Good afternoon to you, sir." Then Reginald having thus done his duty returned home.
Good morning to you."
But on this Wednesday he received a letter, and,--as he told himself, merely in consequence of that letter,--he called at the attorney's house and asked for Miss Masters.
"Of course I shall answer her."
"My name is Morton."
She wants you to go to her at Cheltenham for a month."
"They are all out,--except herself." As he certainly did not wish to see "herself," he greeted the old woman and left his card.
Then it seemed as though there were nothing else for him but to go;--and yet he wanted to say some other word.
"If I did think that,--that-"
He stood for awhile scratching his head as he thought of it.
She was not excellent herself at the writing of letters, and therefore she got Dolly to be the scribe.
In all that misery the poor attorney had the worst of it.
If anybody tells you that it's only just to put you off.
She shan't go at all if I can help it."
Your affectionate friend,
That's the way to win her." Larry did go to the club and did think very much of it as he walked home.
Her letter to Mary, though affectionate, was very short.
She wants to be a fine lady."
If Mary must go to Cheltenham, why could she not go by herself, second class, like any other young woman?
"I'll make her a lady."
She had no new argument to offer,--except this last interposition of Providence in her favour.
"But why has it been put off, mrs Masters?"
"Lady Ushant is coming to Bragton.
In all these disputes he never quite yielded.
I say there ain't nobody;--nobody.
He wrote a scrawl to Dolly,--"I'll come," and, having sent it off by the messenger, tried to trust that there might yet be ground for hope.
"That's why I speak open to you.
It's just poetry and books and rubbish.
Mary was free from her stepmother's zeal and her stepmother's persecution at any rate at night;--but the poor father was hardly allowed to sleep.
Don't you be afraid of her.
"It has all been put off.
It shook me so to have to speak of that," she added simply, "and to keep from making an exhibition of myself took it out of me.
Her husband, she said, had come up to his bedroom about his usual hour for retiring on the Sunday night.
She was ashamed of herself; she thought she could go through with it, but she had not expected those last questions.
"Yes," replied the lady, "he did explain why.
Is it the fact that there was an estrangement between you?"
"Because-" the coroner insisted gently.
A respectable capacity for marshaling facts was fortified in him by a copiousness of impressive language that made juries as clay in his hands and sometimes disguised a doubtful interpretation of the rules of evidence.
But it was not to be yet.
She had spoken to him.
This was not an impression of hardness.
He had changed towards me; he had become very reserved and seemed mistrustful. I saw much less of him than before; he seemed to prefer to be alone.
"Did he say why?" the coroner asked.
Old Grammont had struck the table sharply and the eyes that looked out of his mask had blazed.
What did matter was not whether she threw Lake over but what she threw him over for.
But suppose she was not all ordinary female person....
Until at last a day would come....
Under the most solitary circumstances old Grammont was still inexpressive, and the face that stared at the ceiling of his cabin and the problem of his daughter might have been the face of a pickled head in a museum, for any indication it betrayed of the flow of thought within.
When old Grammont's enquiry man had come back with his report, old Grammont had been very particular about that.
Like some ordinary silly female, sinking to kisses, to the deeds one could buy and pay for.
How could one do it?
The London people think he will be off Falmouth in four days' time.
Protect, guard, cherish...."
But if it was for some other lover, some good looking, worthless impostor, some European title or suchlike folly-!
An interminable speech unfolded itself.
Old Grammont had made that woman sorry she spoke.
And although mr Lake was a man of vast activities and complicated engagements he was coming now to Europe for the express purpose of seeing v v and having things out with her fully and completely because, in spite of all that had happened, she made such an endless series of delays in coming to America.
Rome will be poorly represented, but that may come the day after at Bath.
One was left at the mercy of v v's character....
"She gets away from me.
Section five
v v could stand alone.
Of course it was all right.
And now that Lake had served his purpose old Grammont did not care in the least if he was shelved.
Old Grammont dozed off into dreamland.
His plans were already quite clear.
"I ought to see more of her," he thought.
They'd be like sweethearts together, he and his girl.
They would lunch in Shaftesbury and walk round it.
It was a little sleepy place now, looking out dreamily over beautiful views.
It is duty, his protective duty to them.
Afterwards he had caused enquiries to be made about this Caston, careful enquiries. It seems that he and v v had known each other, there had been something.
Years of business experience, mitigated only by such exercise as the game of poker affords, had intensified an instinctive inexpressiveness.
Once some woman in New York had ventured to hint something to him of some fellow, some affair with an artist, Caston; she had linked this Caston with v v's red cross nursing in Europe....
What was afoot?
Why didn't the girl confide in her father at least about these things?
It would be pleasant to go about with her on his right hand in Paris, HIS girl, straight and lovely, desirable and unapproachable,--above that sort of nonsense, above all other masculine subjugation.
That affair was all right, quite all right.
It was the good men of Bristol, by the bye, with their trade from Africa to America, who gave you your colour problem.
The imaginations of mr Gunter Lake, two days behind mr Grammont upon the Atlantic, were of a gentler, more romantic character.
Bristol we may go through to morrow and Gloucester, mother of I don't know how many American Gloucesters.
If there had been any talk that fact answered it.
Section six
His mind grew calmer.
I must wire them where I can pick up a telegram to morrow."
With her fortune and his-you could buy the world.
It infuriated him even to think of v v, his little v v, his own girl, entertaining a lover, being possibly-most shameful thought-IN LOVE!
He's arranged that.
He explained that he wanted her first to see Shaftesbury, a little old Wessex town that was three or four hundred years older than Salisbury, perched on a hill, a Saxon town, where Alfred had gathered his forces against the Danes and where Canute, who had ruled over all Scandinavia and Iceland and Greenland, and had come near ruling a patch of America, had died.
In itself that wasn't a thing to break her father's heart.
"Absolutely nothing, Sir," said the agent, suddenly white to the lips....
And the next day too I want to show you something of our old River Severn. We will come right up to the present if we go through Bristol.
At the thought of a lover for v v a sudden flood of anger poured across the old man's mind, behind the still mask of his face.
In previous meditations on his daughter's outlook old Grammont had found much that was very suggestive in the precedent of Queen Victoria.
"It was not only from England that America came," said Miss Grammont.
He lay on his back and his bent knees lifted the bed clothes into a sharp mountain.
He fought against it as a possibility.
"Have you seen my father?
"He's getting weaker and weaker, sir; I believe he's sinking.
"Don't be hasty, your honor," said Billy, submissively, "and don't be unjust.
What do you think of him?" asked he, eagerly.
"Leave me, Craggs-leave me alone with him."
When the Corporal, followed by Billy, entered the gloomy hall of the Castle, they found two or three country people conversing in a low but eager voice together, who speedily turned towards them, to learn if the doctor had come.
"I took a bleeding from him, little short of sixteen ounces, from the temporial," said Billy, proudly, "and I'll give him now a concoction of meadow saffron with a pinch of saltpetre in it, to cause diaphoresis, d'ye mind?
Watch what's coming, look out and see which way the mischief is brewin', and make your preparations. That's the great study of physic."
The boy listened patiently and even attentively to this speech, and when Billy had concluded, he turned to the Corporal and said, "Look to him, Craggs, and let him have his supper, and when he has eaten it send him to my room."
"What do you mean by this, Craggs?" said the Viscount, trembling with passion.
"What do you think of him?" asked the Corporal, eagerly.
It's just like weatherin' a point at say.
"He's a sanguineous temperament, and he'll bear the lancet.
"Is it fever?" asked the sick man, in a faint but unfaltering accent.
There's chaps, ay, and far from stupid ones either, that could n't compose you ten hexameters if ye'd put them on a hot griddle for it; and there's others that would talk rhyme rather than rayson!
"What could I do, sir?" was the answer; "it was this fellow or nothing."
"Or a song would be better," observed another.
"Sorra taste of it," muttered another; "there's a sea runnin' outside now that would swamp a life boat."
"Musha, but I 'm glad," muttered one; "he 'd be a great loss to us."
Now for it, Billy.
That Billy was occupied with other thoughts than those of tuning was, however, apparent, for his lips continued to move rapidly; and at moments he was seen to beat time with his foot, as though measuring out the rhythm of a verse.
"The Lord forgive me, but when he came to the last words and said, 'useful light,' I couldn't restrain myself, but broke out, 'That's mighty like a bull, anyhow, and reminds me of the ould song,--
"'Is it you,' said he, with a quiet laugh, 'that accuses Pope of a bull?'
By Jove! how they did sing-all together, like the swell of a church organ."
Well, I put down my pack in the leaves, for I did n't like to see or think of it, and I stretched myself down at the water's edge, and I fell into a fit of musing.
"Before I knew where I was, the boat glided in to the steps, and a tall man, a little stooped in the shoulders, stood before me.
And from musing I fell off asleep; and it was the sound of voices near that first awoke me!
I never listened to such a voice before, so soft, so sweet, so musical, and the words came droppin' down, like the clear water filterin' over a rocky ledge, and glitterin' like little spangles over moss and wild flowers.
"Spoke like a British Grenadier," cried Billy, with enthusiasm.
"Well, one evening-it was in August-I came down by a narrow path to the side of a lake, where there was a stone seat, put up to see the view from, and in front was three wooden steps of stairs going down into the water, where a boat might come in.
"You're right, there, Jim Morris," said he, turning suddenly round towards one of the company; "you never said a truer thing than that. The poetic temperament is riches to a poor man.
"I'll have to be up at the office for the bags at six o'clock."
I can bestow kingdoms.
"Yes, you're right," said Billy, but evidently yielding an unwilling assent to this doctrine.
In the present case, it is but fair to say, there was neither comment nor impatience; on the contrary, they seemed to accept these convulsive throes of sound as an earnest of the grand flood of melody that was coming.
"Didn't I tell you how it would be?" said Billy, as he re-entered the kitchen, now crowded by the workpeople, anxious for tidings of the sick man.
"And which is best, Billy?" asked one of the company.
"'With brains reduced a doable debt to pay, To dream by night, sell Sheffield ware by day.'
An examination of the first drawer did not produce all that she had expected.
She nodded.
I know he goes in sometimes because I tried a dodge that my brother-who's a policeman-taught me.
This interested him mightily and he replaced the cheque book with the tightened lips and the fixed gaze of a man who was thinking rapidly.
"What would justify the use of such an awful weapon?" she asked.
In two seconds it was open and she was examining its contents.
"What is your favourite weapon, mr Kara?" she asked.
Kara rose from his desk and began to pace the room.
As you know, and as I have given you proof, I have the greatest admiration in the world for one whose work for humanity has won such universal recognition.
She pursed her lips thoughtfully.
She looked at him with interest in her eyes.
"Give me those books!" roared the other.
"He will be back very shortly, sir," said the urbane Fisher.
There were four steel drawers fitted at the back and at the bottom of the strong box.
She played idly with the letter she held in her hand, balancing it on the edge of the desk, her eyes downcast.
"Is there anything you want, miss?" he asked as he stood at the door.
I feel that anything less will neither rehabilitate me in your esteem, nor secure for me the remnants of my shattered self respect.
He rang a bell on his table and the girl who had so filled t x with a sense of awe came from an adjoining room.
Half his quarrel with t x was that gentleman's curious indifference to the benevolent attitude which Kara had persistently adopted in his dealings with the detective.
It was her last chance, her last hope.
She heard the soft thud of the front door closing, and rising she crossed the room rapidly and looked down through the window to the street.
The girl was sealing up some letters as he entered and looked up.
Kara folded the letter and inserted it in its envelope.
"No, I don't think that would be advisable.
It's that door that gives me the hump."
Deftly he lifted his left hand from the pocket, crooked the elbow by some quick manipulation, and thrust the books, which the valet most reluctantly handed to him, back to the place from whence he had taken them.
That he should return to Kara's study and set the papers in order was natural and proper.
He shrugged his shoulders.
He paused for a moment before the closed door of the room and smilingly surveyed the great steel latch which spanned the door and fitted into an iron socket securely screwed to the framework.
He was dressed in a well worn overcoat of a somewhat pronounced check, he had a top hat, glossy and obviously new, at the back of his head, and the lower part of his face was covered by a ragged beard.
"Where is Kara?" growled the stranger.
He's had three years to be out!"
He was less than half-way down when the one maid of Kara's household came up to meet him.
"Thank you," said the girl quietly, "but I am already being paid quite sufficient."
"I'll see this gentleman," he said, with a sudden brisk interest.
Good morning to you."
"mr Kara keeps some of his private papers in there," said the girl quietly, "he has told me so himself."
"mr Kara expects you, sir.
This beastly cold kills me," he shivered as he glanced into the bleak street.
Again she watched from the window the disappearing figure.
"Fisher," he said, "I am expecting a visit from a gentleman named Gathercole-a one armed gentleman whom you must look after if he comes. Detain him on some pretext or other because he is rather difficult to get hold of and I want to see him.
If I can buy it, well and good.
To refuse the favours of Remington Kara was, by him, regarded as something of an affront.
It was not the first visit she had made to the big underground room with its vaulted roof and its great ranges-which were seldom used nowadays, for Kara gave no dinners.
"There was a gentleman coming to see mr Kara, whom mr Kara particularly wanted to see."
By the side of the bed on a small table was a telephone, the sight of which apparently afforded the servant a little amusement.
"Shall I ring up for a messenger?"
"I intend increasing that to five pounds because you suit me most admirably."
"I want you to go out now," she said, "I have no stamps."
Fisher went back to the library.
"Very good, sir," said the urbane Fisher, "will you change before you go out?"
"mr Gathercole," said the girl quickly.
"REMINGTON KARA."
"If you would only wait, sir," pleaded the agonized Fisher.
She gave her attention to the second drawer.
"Is that your creed?" she asked quietly.
Tell mr Kara to expect me when he sees me!"
His cook, and the other domestics, necessary for conducting an establishment of that size, were engaged by the day.
He will probably be interested if you take him into the library."
"My dear mr Meredith,
The top pair were locked.
He told me he would be in at six o'clock at the latest."
She passed swiftly down the corridor to Kara's room and made straight for the safe.
"Blackmail suggests to me a vulgar attempt to obtain money."
She pointed to the far end of the kitchen to a soiled looking door of unpainted wood.
"I see," she said, nodding her head quickly.
This however yielded no result.
She was prepared for this contingency and a second key was as efficacious as the first.
She returned the papers to the drawer, pushed it to and locked it.
"Do you know t x Meredith?" he asked suddenly.
He replenished the fire, asked deferentially for any instructions and returned again to his quest.
"What time did mr Kara say he would be back?"
The maid-who was also cook-arose up as the girl entered.
Fisher took the card from the salver and read, "mr
Kara was given to making friends of his servants-up to a point.
"I think I will go as I am," he said.
I wish you had called me."
"I am, dear mr Meredith,
Give me those books."
I need hardly tell you-"
"I have heard of him," said the girl.
He was a man who would have attracted attention, if only from the somewhat eccentric nature of his dress and his unkempt appearance.
Fisher followed him to his car, wrapped the fur rug about his legs, closed the door carefully and returned to the house.
He gave a savage little tug at his beard.
"It's a sight for sore eyes to see you in my kitchen, miss," she smiled.
"But I assure you, sir,--" stammered Fisher.
mr Fred Fisher found little to reward him for his search until he came upon Kara's cheque book which told him that on the previous day the Greek had drawn six thousand pounds in cash from the bank.
"He never gave a chance, miss," said Fisher, with a little smile, "but if he comes again I'll show him straight up to you."
The newcomer glared round at the valet.
What the devil does he mean by being out?
"There's a gentleman who wants to see mr Kara," she said, "here is his card."
"Out, is he?" boomed the visitor.
"Get me my fur coat.
t x," he went on somewhat oracularly, "is a man for whom I have a great deal of respect.
He paid a visit to the library, where the secretary was engaged in making copies of Kara's correspondence, answering letters appealing for charitable donations, and in the hack words which fall to the secretaries of the great.
"I hope that we shall both forget this unhappy morning and that you will give me an opportunity of rendering to you in person, the apologies which are due to you.
CHAPTER nine
George Gathercole, Junior Travellers' Club."
You will tell mr Kara that I called.
"That is a word I never use, nor do I like to hear it employed," he said.
"Rum cove," said Fisher.
In his more generous moments he would address his bodyguard as "Fred," and on more occasions than one, and for no apparent reason, had tipped his servant over and above his salary.
He put it carefully in his pocket and went from the room to change. Large as the house was Kara did not employ a regular staff of servants. A maid and a valet comprised the whole of the indoor staff.
Probably he required no such encouragement, for in the presence of his social inferiors he was somewhat monopolizing.
Fisher nodded.
She left him, a little astonished and not a little ruffled.
Miss Holland laughed.
"A man with a singular mind," said Kara; "a man against whom my favourite weapon would fail."
It was against a wooden surface beneath the sleeve that his knuckles struck, and this view of the stranger's infirmity was confirmed when the other reached round with his right hand, took hold of the gloved left hand and thrust it into the pocket of his overcoat.
"I've waited three years, I tell you.
In that case was a new steel key.
"I am hoping you will dine with me next week and meet a most interesting man, George Gathercole, who has just returned from Patagonia,--I only received his letter this morning- having made most remarkable discoveries concerning that country.
Kara shook his head.
If I can obtain it by any merit I possess, I utilize that merit, providing always, that I can secure my object in the time, otherwise-"
"I'm afraid you're rather lonely, mrs Beale," said the girl sympathetically.
"You will see that this is delivered, Miss Holland."
"Viewed from my standpoint, they are sordid criminals-the sort of person that t x meets, I presume, in the course of his daily work.
If you will allow Gathercole, who will be unconscious of the part he is playing, to act as peacemaker between yourself and myself, I shall feel that his trip, which has cost me a large sum of money, will not have been wasted.
He lifted his shoulders with a deprecating smile.
From her bag she produced a small purse and opened it.
"What dog am I that I should wait till six?"
Do whatever you can to prevent him going away until I return.
"Keep my fire going, put all my private letters in my bedroom, and see that Miss Holland has her lunch."
"It is amply justified to secure an end," he said blandly.
"I suppose that is how blackmailers feel."
He rang the bell, this time for his valet.
"I feel sure that you are large enough minded and too much a man of the world to allow my foolish fit of temper to disturb a relationship which I have always hoped would be mutually pleasant.
"I am paying you three pounds a week, I think," he said.
"mr Kara will be very cross, but I don't see how you can help it.
"Cut a man's flesh and it heals," he said.
"Part of it, Miss Holland," he smiled.
It was a square case covered in red morocco leather.
This he was plucking with nervous jerks, talking to himself the while, and casting a disparaging eye upon the portrait of Remington Kara which hung above the marble fireplace.
"Yes, miss, I couldn't get him to stay though."
"I am afraid, Miss Holland, I've got myself into very serious trouble."
Her hand shook a little as she pulled it open.
"Take these!" he ordered peremptorily, pointing to the books under his arm.
It was a large safe of the usual type.
This time he made the bedroom the scene of his investigations.
Kara had returned from the country earlier than had been anticipated, and, save for Fisher, the only other person in the house beside the girl, was the middle aged domestic who was parlour maid, serving maid and housekeeper in one.
You had better take it yourself."
If I can buy those who can use their influence to secure this thing for me, so much the better.
"Then I shan't wait.
"At six o'clock, miss," the man replied.
mrs Beale obeyed with alacrity and whilst she was assuming a hat-being desirous of maintaining her prestige as housekeeper in the eyes of Cadogan Square, the girl ascended to the upper floor.
"For example-I want something-I cannot obtain that something through the ordinary channel or by the employment of ordinary means.
"Six o'clock, eh?
There were a number of small jewel boxes almost filling the drawer.
Accidentally the valet's hand pressed against the other's sleeve and he received a shock, for the forearm was clearly an artificial one.
He walked down the corridor, with a meditative frown, and began to descend the stairs to the hall.
He lifted it gingerly-there was a little knob for the purpose-and let it fall gently into the socket which had been made to receive it on the door itself.
Fear is a tyrant and a despot, more terrible than the rack, more potent than the stake.
"I shall certainly not discuss your business with any person," said the girl coldly.
"What is that, Fisher!" asked the girl.
"I will go with pleasure, miss," he said.
"Rum cove," he said again, and lifting the latch to the hook which held it up, left the room, closing the door softly behind him.
Fisher, who was an observer of some discernment, noticed under the overcoat a creased blue suit, large black boots and a pair of pearl studs.
"It is a matter of plane," he said airily.
A pair of pince nez sat crookedly on his nose and two fat volumes under his arm completed the picture.
From thence onward his behaviour was somewhat extraordinary for a well bred servant.
You will probably meet him again, for he will find an opportunity of asking you a few questions about myself.
She took them out one by one and at the bottom she found what she had been searching for and that which had filled her thoughts for the past three months.
"Which is generally very badly wanted by the people who use it," said the girl, with a little smile, "and, according to your argument, they are also justified."
It is destroyed for the imagination by any attempt to refer it to organization.
For it is a fire that kindling its first embers in the narrow nook of a private bosom, caught from a wandering spark out of another private heart, glows and enlarges until it warms and beams upon multitudes of men and women, upon the universal heart of all, and so lights up the whole world and all nature with its generous flames.
And therefore I know I incur the imputation of unnecessary hardness and stoicism from those who compose the Court and Parliament of Love.
"I was as a gem concealed; Me my burning ray revealed." Koran.
Neighborhood, size, numbers, habits, persons, lose by degrees their power over us. Cause and effect, real affinities, the longing for harmony between the soul and the circumstance, the progressive, idealizing instinct, predominate later, and the step backward from the higher to the lower relations is impossible.
The trees of the forest, the waving grass and the peeping flowers have grown intelligent; and he almost fears to trust them with the secret which they seem to invite. Yet nature soothes and sympathizes.
"The person love does to us fit, Like manna, has the taste of all in it."
For each man sees his own life defaced and disfigured, as the life of man is not, to his imagination.
Nature grows conscious.
But here is a strange fact; it may seem to many men, in revising their experience, that they have no fairer page in their life's book than the delicious memory of some passages wherein affection contrived to give a witchcraft, surpassing the deep attraction of its own truth, to a parcel of accidental and trivial circumstances.
For it is to be considered that this passion of which we speak, though it begin with the young, yet forsakes not the old, or rather suffers no one who is truly its servant to grow old, but makes the aged participators of it not less than the tender maiden, though in a different and nobler sort.
Thus are we put in training for a love which knows not sex, nor person, nor partiality, but which seeks virtue and wisdom everywhere, to the end of increasing virtue and wisdom.
We are by nature observers, and thereby learners.
Every thing is beautiful seen from the point of the intellect, or as truth.
Beauty, whose revelation to man we now celebrate, welcome as the sun wherever it pleases to shine, which pleases everybody with it and with themselves, seems sufficient to itself.
The angels that inhabit this temple of the body appear at the windows, and the gnomes and vices also.
But all is sour, if seen as experience.
And what fastens attention, in the intercourse of life, like any passage betraying affection between two parties?
His friends find in her a likeness to her mother, or her sisters, or to persons not of her blood.
"Fountain heads and pathless groves, Places which pale passion loves, Moonlight walks, when all the fowls Are safely housed, save bats and owls, A midnight bell, a passing groan,-- These are the sounds we feed upon."
LOVE.
He does not longer appertain to his family and society; he is somewhat; he is a person; he is a soul.
How we glow over these novels of passion, when the story is told with any spark of truth and nature!
Thus even love, which is the deification of persons, must become more impersonal every day.
For it is the nature and end of this relation, that they should represent the human race to each other. All that is in the world, which is or ought to be known, is cunningly wrought into the texture of man, of woman:--
They try and weigh their affection, and adding up costly advantages, friends, opportunities, properties, exult in discovering that willingly, joyfully, they would give all as a ransom for the beautiful, the beloved head, not one hair of which shall be harmed. But the lot of humanity is on these children.
But from these formidable censors I shall appeal to my seniors.
It awaits a truer unfolding in opposition and rebuke to that subterranean prudence which presides at marriages with words that take hold of the upper world, whilst one eye is prowling in the cellar; so that its gravest discourse has a savor of hams and powdering tubs.
Every bird on the boughs of the tree sings now to his heart and soul.
The union which is thus effected and which adds a new value to every atom in nature-for it transmutes every thread throughout the whole web of relation into a golden ray, and bathes the soul in a new and sweeter element-is yet a temporary state. Not always can flowers, pearls, poetry, protestations, nor even home in another heart, content the awful soul that dwells in clay.
In the noon and the afternoon of life we still throb at the recollection of days when happiness was not happy enough, but must be drugged with the relish of pain and fear; for he touched the secret of the matter who said of love,--
With thought, with the ideal, is immortal hilarity, the rose of joy.
Their once flaming regard is sobered by time in either breast, and losing in violence what it gains in extent, it becomes a thorough good understanding.
In looking backward they may find that several things which were not the charm have more reality to this groping memory than the charm itself which embalmed them.
Of this at first it gives no hint.
Life, with this pair, has no other aim, asks no more, than Juliet,--than Romeo.
Like a tree in flower, so much soft, budding, informing loveliness is society for itself; and she teaches his eye why Beauty was pictured with Loves and Graces attending her steps.
Her existence makes the world rich.
But we need not fear that we can lose any thing by the progress of the soul.
Passion beholds its object as a perfect unit.
It is not you, but your radiance.
From exchanging glances, they advance to acts of courtesy, of gallantry, then to fiery passion, to plighting troth and marriage.
The delicious fancies of youth reject the least savor of a mature philosophy, as chilling with age and pedantry their purple bloom.
Perhaps we never saw them before, and never shall meet them again.
If there be virtue, all the vices are known as such; they confess and flee.
The lover cannot paint his maiden to his fancy poor and solitary.
Its nature is like opaline doves'-neck lustres, hovering and evanescent.
It is the dawn of civility and grace in the coarse and rustic.
There are moments when the affections rule and absorb the man and make his happiness dependent on a person or persons.
We are touched with emotions of tenderness and complacency, but we cannot find whereat this dainty emotion, this wandering gleam, points.
I know not why, but infinite compunctions embitter in mature life the remembrances of budding joy and cover every beloved name.
The girls may have little beauty, yet plainly do they establish between them and the good boy the most agreeable, confiding relations, what with their fun and their earnest, about Edgar and Jonas and Almira, and who was invited to the party, and who danced at the dancing school, and when the singing school would begin, and other nothings concerning which the parties cooed.
That is our permanent state.
In the green solitude he finds a dearer home than with men:--
Yet that which drew them to each other was signs of loveliness, signs of virtue; and these virtues are there, however eclipsed.
Love prays.
The lovers delight in endearments, in avowals of love, in comparisons of their regards.
The passion rebuilds the world for the youth.
Hence arise surprise, expostulation and pain.
Does that other see the same star, the same melting cloud, read the same book, feel the same emotion, that now delight me?
That which is so beautiful and attractive as these relations, must be succeeded and supplanted only by what is more beautiful, and so on for ever.
Though she extrudes all other persons from his attention as cheap and unworthy, she indemnifies him by carrying out her own being into somewhat impersonal, large, mundane, so that the maiden stands to him for a representative of all select things and virtues.
But grief cleaves to names, and persons, and the partial interests of to day and yesterday.
And here let us examine a little nearer the nature of that influence which is thus potent over the human youth.
Behold there in the wood the fine madman!
Danger, sorrow, and pain arrive to them, as to all.
But we are often made to feel that our affections are but tents of a night.
The god or hero of the sculptor is always represented in a transition from that which is representable to the senses, to that which is not.
They appear and reappear and continue to attract; but the regard changes, quits the sign and attaches to the substance.
The rays of the soul alight first on things nearest, on every utensil and toy, on nurses and domestics, on the house and yard and passengers, on the circle of household acquaintance, on politics and geography and history.
The work of vegetation begins first in the irritability of the bark and leaf buds.
It matters not therefore whether we attempt to describe the passion at twenty, at thirty, or at eighty years.
Round it all the Muses sing.
We cannot approach beauty.
The lover sees no resemblance except to summer evenings and diamond mornings, to rainbows and the song of birds.
Details are melancholy; the plan is seemly and noble.
But things are ever grouping themselves according to higher or more interior laws.
Into the most pitiful and abject it will infuse a heart and courage to defy the world, so only it have the countenance of the beloved object.
The heats that have opened his perceptions of natural beauty have made him love music and verse.
He is a new man, with new perceptions, new and keener purposes, and a religious solemnity of character and aims.
Little think the youth and maiden who are glancing at each other across crowded rooms with eyes so full of mutual intelligence, of the precious fruit long hereafter to proceed from this new, quite external stimulus.
But we see them exchange a glance, or betray a deep emotion, and we are no longer strangers.
The ancients called beauty the flowering of virtue.
It is that which you know not in yourself and can never know.
The soul which is in the soul of each, craving a perfect beatitude, detects incongruities, defects and disproportion in the behavior of the other.
Among the throng of girls he runs rudely enough, but one alone distances him; and these two little neighbors, that were so close just now, have learned to respect each other's personality.
It makes covenants with Eternal Power in behalf of this dear mate.
Each man sees over his own experience a certain stain of error, whilst that of other men looks fair and ideal.
Nor does it point to any relations of friendship or love known and described in society, but, as it seems to me, to a quite other and unattainable sphere, to relations of transcendent delicacy and sweetness, to what roses and violets hint and foreshow.
But this dream of love, though beautiful, is only one scene in our play.
"Her pure and eloquent blood Spoke in her cheeks, and so distinctly wrought, That one might almost say her body thought."
It is a fact often observed, that men have written good verses under the inspiration of passion, who cannot write well under any other circumstances.
Let any man go back to those delicious relations which make the beauty of his life, which have given him sincerest instruction and nourishment, he will shrink and moan.
Nature, uncontainable, flowing, forelooking, in the first sentiment of kindness anticipates already a benevolence which shall lose all particular regards in its general light.
He is a palace of sweet sounds and sights; he dilates; he is twice a man; he walks with arms akimbo; he soliloquizes; he accosts the grass and the trees; he feels the blood of the violet, the clover and the lily in his veins; and he talks with the brook that wets his foot.
It expands the sentiment; it makes the clown gentle and gives the coward heart.
For persons are love's world, and the coldest philosopher cannot recount the debt of the young soul wandering here in nature to the power of love, without being tempted to unsay, as treasonable to nature, aught derogatory to the social instincts.
In giving him to another it still more gives him to himself.
They resign each other without complaint to the good offices which man and woman are severally appointed to discharge in time, and exchange the passion which once could not lose sight of its object, for a cheerful, disengaged furtherance, whether present or absent, of each other's designs.
Then first it ceases to be a stone.
But now I almost shrink at the remembrance of such disparaging words.
By and by that boy wants a wife, and very truly and heartily will he know where to find a sincere and sweet mate, without any risk such as Milton deplores as incident to scholars and great men.
We understand them, and take the warmest interest in the development of the romance.
The like force has the passion over all his nature.
Romeo, if dead, should be cut up into little stars to make the heavens fine.
It makes all things alive and significant.
This repairs the wounded affection.
It arouses itself at last from these endearments, as toys, and puts on the harness and aspires to vast and universal aims.
What books in the circulating libraries circulate?
The notes are almost articulate. The clouds have faces as he looks on them.
The same remark holds of painting.
By conversation with that which is in itself excellent, magnanimous, lowly, and just, the lover comes to a warmer love of these nobilities, and a quicker apprehension of them.
The rude village boy teases the girls about the school house door;--but to day he comes running into the entry, and meets one fair child disposing her satchel; he holds her books to help her, and instantly it seems to him as if she removed herself from him infinitely, and was a sacred precinct.
In the procession of the soul from within outward, it enlarges its circles ever, like the pebble thrown into the pond, or the light proceeding from an orb.
The soul may be trusted to the end.
"All other pleasures are not worth its pains:"
All mankind love a lover. The earliest demonstrations of complacency and kindness are nature's most winning pictures.
If Plato, Plutarch and Apuleius taught it, so have Petrarch, Angelo and Milton.
Hence arose the saying, "If I love you, what is that to you?" We say so because we feel that what we love is not in your will, but above it.
Then he passes from loving them in one to loving them in all, and so is the one beautiful soul only the door through which he enters to the society of all true and pure souls.
The world rolls; the circumstances vary every hour.
Every promise of the soul has innumerable fulfilments; each of its joys ripens into a new want.
By all the virtues they are united.
He who paints it at the first period will lose some of its later, he who paints it at the last, some of its earlier traits.
The strong bent of nature is seen in the proportion which this topic of personal relations usurps in the conversation of society.
And of poetry the success is not attained when it lulls and satisfies, but when it astonishes and fires us with new endeavors after the unattainable.
Herein it resembles the most excellent things, which all have this rainbow character, defying all attempts at appropriation and use.
This time the traveller carried no books.
Gathercole," and Kara came forward with a smile to meet his agent, who, with top hat still on the top of his head, and his overcoat dangling about his heels, must have made a remarkable picture.
He stamped down the stairs as though testing the weight of every tread, opened the front door without assistance, slammed it behind him and disappeared into the night.
Had t x returned!
The voice from the hall below was loud and gruff.
"You're a queer old devil," he said, and looked at his watch again.
"Will you see mr Gathercole now!"
Bring me up some sandwiches and a large glass of milk.
At that moment there came from Kara's room a faint "clang."
"Look here!"
He had satisfied t x and allayed his suspicions.
"mr Kara will see you, sir," said Fisher.
The embarrassed Fisher grinned.
"Send him up," he said, and then as Fisher was going out of the room he called him back.
"Oh!" said the other glaring at the unoffending Fisher, "that's very good of him.
"I suppose your cheque will be honoured all right?" asked the visitor sardonically, and then burst into a little chuckle of laughter as he carefully closed the door.
"Yes, sir," said the servant.
The beat of hoofs on the rocky roadway, the crash of the door falling in when the Turkish Gendarmes had battered a way to his rescue.
t x with a search warrant might be a source of panic especially if-he shrugged his shoulders.
Such an instruction was remarkably pleasing to him.
"Do you see those grey hairs in my beard?"
The startled Fisher drew back with an apologetic smile.
He pushed open the door and announced, "mr
"mr Gathercole!"
"Never trust a Greek," he said, "always get your money in advance.
"mr Kara's put down his steel latch," said Fisher with a smile, "which means that he is not to be disturbed until-" he looked at his watch, "until eleven o'clock at any rate."
"No more Patagonia!" he roared, "no more Tierra del Fuego!" he paused.
What started the train of thought he did not know, but at that moment his mind was very far away.
"Is it real grey?" insisted the visitor.
Or better still, place them on a plate in the hall."
There was much that he had to do and that night's freedom would assist him materially.
Very good of this person to see a scholar and a gentleman who has been about his dirty business for three years.
Who could it be!
"Pull one out and see!"
"By the way, Fisher, after mr Gathercole has gone, you may go out for the night.
Do you understand that, my man!"
It wanted five minutes to ten.
He slipped from the bed and went to the door, opened it slightly and listened.
"Very good, sir," said the man and withdrew.
Fisher closed the door behind them and returned to his duties in the hall below.
"Certainly!"
Ask him if he minds seeing me in my room."
Ten minutes later he heard the door opened and the booming voice of the stranger came down to him.
"Yes, sir," said the valet hastily.
Fisher, his hands in his pockets, looked after the departing stranger, nodding his head in reprobation.
"Yes, sir," said Fisher, "but I think you will always find that mr Kara is always most generous about money."
He replied to some question, "but not Patagonia," he paused again, and Fisher standing at the foot of the stairs wondered what had occurred to make the visitor so genial.
"He's a funk!" snapped the other, "a beastly funk!"
"Oh, you couldn't," sneered the visitor; "then lead on!"
The traveller touched the other on the chest with his right hand.
"What's that?" asked the visitor a little startled.
Kara laughed.
The man thrust out his face.
His left arm hung limply by his side and Fisher privately gathered that the hand had got loose from the detaining pocket without its owner being aware of the fact.
"Yes, sir," said Fisher.
Kara breathed a sigh of relief and his face was wreathed in smiles.
"Is it grey!" challenged the visitor, with a roar.
Tell him to come up.
He remembered with a savage joy the spectacle of his would be assassins twitching and struggling on the gallows at Pezara and-he heard the faint tinkle of the front door bell.
CHAPTER twelve
Fisher showed the way up the stairs.
"Perhaps" Kara hesitated, "perhaps you had better wait until eleven o'clock.
"Don't you believe it, don't you believe it, my poor man," said the other, "you-"
Grown grey in his service!
He would get Fisher out of the way that night and make sure.
"I couldn't think of doing a thing like that, sir."
You've got somewhere to go, I suppose, and you needn't come back until the morning."
"Damn all Greeks," he said jovially, and Fisher could do no more than smile reproachfully, the smile being his very own, the reproach being on behalf of the master who paid him.
He came down the corridor talking to himself, and greeted Fisher.
He remembered the day well because it was Candlemas day, and this was the anniversary.
He remembered other things more pleasant.
There was here one Mary Thurston of Medfield, who seeing how it was with me, lent me a hat to wear; but as soon as I was gone, the squaw (who owned that Mary Thurston) came running after me, and got it away again.
Although I had met with so much affliction, and my heart was many times ready to break, yet could I not shed one tear in their sight; but rather had been all this while in a maze, and like one astonished.
I thought of the English army, and hoped for their coming, and being taken by them, but that failed.
I was utterly hopeless of getting home on foot, the way that I came.
I went, and he gave me a pancake, about as big as two fingers.
Then was I fain to stoop to this rude fellow, and to go out in the night, I knew not whither.
The next day in the morning they took their travel, intending a day's journey up the river.
And yet they were so nice in other things, that when I had fetched water, and had put the dish I dipped the water with into the kettle of water which I brought, they would say they would knock me down; for they said, it was a sluttish trick.
But instead of going either to Albany or homeward, we must go five miles up the river, and then go over it.
I cannot but think what a wolvish appetite persons have in a starving condition; for many times when they gave me that which was hot, I was so greedy, that I should burn my mouth, that it would trouble me hours after, and yet I should quickly do the same again.
THE TWELFTH REMOVE
I could hardly tell what to say: Yet I answered, they would kill me.
I hoped to be carried to Albany, as the Indians had discoursed before, but that failed also.
When they came to the place where they intended to lodge, and had pitched their wigwams, being hungry, I went again back to the place we were before at, to get something to eat, being encouraged by the squaw's kindness, who bade me come again.
When I had done it, he would pay me nothing.
I went to one wigwam, and they told me they had no room.
Two canoes full they had carried over; the next turn I myself was to go.
But I stepped out, and she struck the stick into the mat of the wigwam.
But now that was savory to me that one would think was enough to turn the stomach of a brute creature.
Then I took it of the child, and eat it myself, and savory it was to my taste.
Another asked me to knit a pair of stockings, for which she gave me a quart of peas.
We went in the morning to gather ground nuts, to the river, and went back again that night.
We went on our travel.
It was made of parched wheat, beaten, and fried in bear's grease, but I thought I never tasted pleasanter meat in my life.
Connecticut, to meet with King Philip.
If I keep in, I must die with hunger, and if I go out, I must be knocked in head.
Yet I can say, that in all my sorrows and afflictions, God did not leave me to have my impatience work towards Himself, as if His ways were unrighteous.
I could hardly bear to think of the many weary steps I had taken, to come to this place.
THE NINTH REMOVE
Which stilled my spirit for the present.
I went home and found venison roasting that night, but they would not give me one bit of it.
Now may I say with David "I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.
I went to a wigwam, and they bade me come in, and gave me a skin to lie upon, and a mess of venison and ground nuts, which was a choice dish among them.
He answered me that he was not asleep, but at prayer; and lay so, that they might not observe what he was doing.
I went to see how she did, and she was well, considering her captive condition.
And His goodness in bringing to my hand so many comfortable and suitable scriptures in my distress.
For her satisfaction I went along with her, and brought her to him; but before I got home again it was noised about that I was running away and getting the English youth, along with me; that as soon as I came in they began to rant and domineer, asking me where I had been, and what I had been doing? and saying they would knock him on the head.
He told me he was as much grieved for his father as for himself.
In that time came a company of Indians to us, near thirty, all on horseback.
This distressed condition held that day, and half the next.
Now is my spirit revived again; though means be never so inconsiderable, yet if the Lord bestow His blessing upon them, they shall refresh both soul and body.
I told her I had got him to a fire in such a place.
Thomas Read.
And after I was thoroughly hungry, I was never again satisfied.
Then I went along with him to his new master who told me he loved him, and he should not want.
We came to Banquang river again that day, near which we abode a few days.
I put it in my pocket to keep it safe.
Afterwards he asked me to make a cap for his boy, for which he invited me to dinner.
He bade me come in and sit down, and asked me whether I would smoke it (a usual compliment nowadays amongst saints and sinners) but this no way suited me.
I could scarce discern one wigwam from another.
But a sore time of trial, I concluded, I had to go through, my master being gone, who seemed to me the best friend that I had of an Indian, both in cold and hunger, and quickly so it proved.
But I thank God, He has now given me power over it; surely there are many who may be better employed than to lie sucking a stinking tobacco pipe.
My mistress's papoose was sick, and it died that night, and there was one benefit in it-that there was more room.
They told me I lied, and taking up a hatchet, they came to me, and said they would knock me down if I stirred out again, and so confined me to the wigwam.
Sometimes I met with favor, and sometimes with nothing but frowns.
Whereupon I asked one of them, whether they intended to kill him; he answered me, they would not.
It seems to be a bait the devil lays to make men lose their precious time.
Then they packed up their things to be gone, and gave me my load.
I complained it was too heavy, whereupon she gave me a slap in the face, and bade me go; I lifted up my heart to God, hoping the redemption was not far off; and the rather because their insolency grew worse and worse.
My spirit was, upon this, I confess, very impatient, and almost outrageous.
THE EIGHTH REMOVE
THE TENTH REMOVE
A comfortable remove it was to me, because of my hopes.
Then I went home to my mistress's wigwam; and they told me I disgraced my master with begging, and if I did so any more, they would knock me in the head.
When we were at this place, my master's maid came home; she had been gone three weeks into the Narragansett country to fetch corn, where they had stored up some in the ground.
Then I went to see King Philip.
THE SIXTEENTH REMOVAL
So like were these barbarous creatures to him who was a liar from the beginning.
I thought of being sold to my husband, as my master spake, but instead of that, my master himself was gone, and I left behind, so that my spirit was now quite ready to sink.
When I was there, there came an Indian to look after me, who when he had found me, kicked me all along.
For though I had formerly used tobacco, yet I had left it ever since I was first taken.
Then he came running to tell me he had a new master, and that he had given him some ground nuts already.
We bemoaned one another a while, as the Lord helped us, and then I returned again.
I offered the money to my master, but he bade me keep it; and with it I bought a piece of horse flesh.
THE SEVENTEENTH REMOVE
This was about the time that their great captain, Naananto, was killed in the Narragansett country. My son being now about a mile from me, I asked liberty to go and see him; they bade me go, and away I went; but quickly lost myself, traveling over hills and through swamps, and could not find the way to him.
So easy a thing it is with God to dry up the streams of Scripture comfort from us.
He showed me the way to my son.
I showed myself willing, and bid him ask my mistress if I might go along with him a little way; she said yes, I might, but I was not a little refreshed with that news, that I had my liberty again.
THE FOURTEENTH REMOVE
I took my load at my back, and quickly we came to wade over the river; and passed over tiresome and wearisome hills.
I told them the skin was off my back, but I had no other comforting answer from them than this: that it would be no matter if my head were off too.
A squaw moved it down again, at which I looked up, and she threw a handful of ashes in mine eyes.
I told them, I could not tell where to go, they bade me go look; I told them, if I went to another wigwam they would be angry, and send me home again.
But as my foot was upon the canoe to step in there was a sudden outcry among them, and I must step back, and instead of going over the river, I must go four or five miles up the river farther northward.
Then I went to another, and they said the same; at last an old Indian bade me to come to him, and his squaw gave me some ground nuts; she gave me also something to lay under my head, and a good fire we had; and through the good providence of God, I had a comfortable lodging that night.
On the morrow they buried the papoose, and afterward, both morning and evening, there came a company to mourn and howl with her; though I confess I could not much condole with them.
I have sometime seen bear baked very handsomely among the English, and some like it, but the thought that it was bear made me tremble.
Many sorrowful days I had in this place, often getting alone. "Like a crane, or a swallow, so did I chatter; I did mourn as a dove, mine eyes ail with looking upward.
I ran out and catched it up, and put it into my pocket, and never let her see it afterward.
THE FIFTEENTH REMOVE
Then came an Indian to me with a pair of stockings that were too big for him, and he would have me ravel them out, and knit them fit for him.
My son was ill, and I could not but think of his mournful looks, and no Christian friend was near him, to do any office of love for him, either for soul or body. And my poor girl, I knew not where she was, nor whether she was sick, or well, or alive, or dead.
Which he did, and it seems tarried a little too long; for his master was angry with him, and beat him, and then sold him.
In the morning they took the blood of the deer, and put it into the paunch, and so boiled it.
He told me he was very sick of a flux, with eating so much blood.
They all gathered about the poor man, asking him many questions.
Hearing that my son was come to this place, I went to see him, and found him lying flat upon the ground.
I would have tarried that night with her, but they that owned her would not suffer it.
We had husband and father, and children, and sisters, and friends, and relations, and house, and home, and many comforts of this life: but now we may say, as Job, "Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return: the Lord gave, the Lord hath taken away, blessed be the name of the Lord." I asked him whether he would read.
I cannot express to man the sorrow that lay upon my spirit; the Lord knows it.
Thus the Lord dealt mercifully with me many times, and I fared better than many of them.
When I came ashore, they gathered all about me, I sitting alone in the midst.
On the morrow morning we must go over the river, i e
He told me he saw him such a time in the Bay, and he was well, but very melancholy.
But while she was pulling of it out I ran to the maid and gave her all my apron, and so that storm went over.
One hill was so steep that I was fain to creep up upon my knees, and to hold by the twigs and bushes to keep myself from falling backward.
THE THIRTEENTH REMOVE
We began this remove with wading over Banquang river: the water was up to the knees, and the stream very swift, and so cold that I thought it would have cut me in sunder.
When I was returned, I found myself as unsatisfied as I was before.
Yet the Lord still showed mercy to me, and upheld me; and as He wounded me with one hand, so he healed me with the other.
About two hours in the night, my sweet babe like a lamb departed this life on february eighteenth sixteen seventy five.
I went to take up my dead child in my arms to carry it with me, but they bid me let it alone; there was no resisting, but go I must and leave it.
Hearing, I say, that I was in this Indian town, he obtained leave to come and see me.
One of the Indians got up upon a horse, and they set me up behind him, with my poor sick babe in my lap.
I do not desire to live to forget this Scripture, and what comfort it was to me.
And now I must part with that little company I had.
I asked them whether I might not lodge in the house that night, to which they answered, "What, will you love English men still?"
On the Saturday they boiled an old horse's leg which they had got, and so we drank of the broth, as soon as they thought it was ready, and when it was almost all gone, they filled it up again.
And as I was going along, my heart was even overwhelmed with the thoughts of my condition, and that I should have children, and a nation which I knew not, ruled over them.
God having taken away this dear child, I went to see my daughter Mary, who was at this same Indian town, at a wigwam not very far off, though we had little liberty or opportunity to see one another.
One of my elder sisters' children, named William, had then his leg broken, which the Indians perceiving, they knocked him on [his] head.
Heart aching thoughts here I had about my poor children, who were scattered up and down among the wild beasts of the forest.
I was glad of it, and asked him, whether he thought the Indians would let me read?
At this place we continued about four days.
I cannot but take notice of the wonderful mercy of God to me in those afflictions, in sending me a Bible.
Some in our house were fighting for their lives, others wallowing in their blood, the house on fire over our heads, and the bloody heathen ready to knock us on the head, if we stirred out.
When we are in prosperity, Oh the little that we think of such dreadful sights, and to see our dear friends, and relations lie bleeding out their heart blood upon the ground.
I took this to be some gracious answer to my earnest and unfeigned desire.
What, through faintness and soreness of body, it was a grievous day of travel to me.
I then remembered how careless I had been of God's holy time; how many Sabbaths I had lost and misspent, and how evilly I had walked in God's sight; which lay so close unto my spirit, that it was easy for me to see how righteous it was with God to cut off the thread of my life and cast me out of His presence forever.
When I came to the brow of the hill, that looked toward the swamp, I thought we had been come to a great Indian town (though there were none but our own company).
It was nine days from the first wounding, in this miserable condition, without any refreshing of one nature or other, except a little cold water.
The swamp by which we lay was, as it were, a deep dungeon, and an exceeding high and steep hill before it.
The next day was the Sabbath.
I told them it was the Sabbath day, and desired them to let me rest, and told them I would do as much more tomorrow; to which they answered me they would break my face.
Written by her own hand for her private use, and now made public at the earnest desire of some friends, and for the benefit of the afflicted.
There was hard by a vacant house (deserted by the English before, for fear of the Indians).
They told me they did as they were able, and it was some comfort to me, that the Lord stirred up children to look to Him.
By the advantage of some brush which they had laid upon the raft to sit upon, I did not wet my foot (which many of themselves at the other end were mid leg deep) which cannot but be acknowledged as a favor of God to my weakened body, it being a very cold time.
As we went along, I saw a place where English cattle had been.
God did not give them courage or activity to go over after us.
Here I parted from my daughter Mary (whom I never saw again till I saw her in Dorchester, returned from captivity), and from four little cousins and neighbors, some of which I never saw afterward: the Lord only knows the end of them.
I was at this time knitting a pair of white cotton stockings for my mistress; and had not yet wrought upon a Sabbath day.
THE SIXTH REMOVE
There were five persons taken in one house; the father, and the mother and a sucking child, they knocked on the head; the other two they took and carried away alive.
With tears in his eyes, he asked me whether his sister Sarah was dead; and told me he had seen his sister Mary; and prayed me, that I would not be troubled in reference to himself.
They being to go one way, and I another, I asked them whether they were earnest with God for deliverance.
I hope she is reaping the fruit of her good labors, being faithful to the service of God in her place.
Before I got to the top of the hill, I thought my heart and legs, and all would have broken, and failed me.
THE THIRD REMOVE
There were twelve killed, some shot, some stabbed with their spears, some knocked down with their hatchets.
I was not before acquainted with such kind of doings or dangers.
They quickly fell to cutting dry trees, to make rafts to carry them over the river: and soon my turn came to go over.
There were now besides myself nine English captives in this place (all of them children, except one woman).
THE FOURTH REMOVE
A certain number of us got over the river that night, but it was the night after the Sabbath before all the company was got over.
For more information, or to volunteer, please visit librivox dot org.
There was one who was chopped into the head with a hatchet, and stripped naked, and yet was crawling up and down.
Oh, I may see the wonderful power of God, that my Spirit did not utterly sink under my affliction: still the Lord upheld me with His gracious and merciful spirit, and we were both alive to see the light of the next morning.
The occasion (as I thought) of their moving at this time was the English army, it being near and following them.
It being about six years, and five months old.
Upon a Friday, a little after noon, we came to this river.
The greatest number at this time with us were squaws, and they traveled with all they had, bag and baggage, and yet they got over this river aforesaid; and on Monday they set their wigwams on fire, and away they went.
It was a cold morning, and before us there was a great brook with ice on it; some waded through it, up to the knees and higher, but others went till they came to a beaver dam, and I amongst them, where through the good providence of God, I did not wet my foot.
Oh the experience that I have had of the goodness of God, to me and mine!
We came that day to a great swamp, by the side of which we took up our lodging that night.
On Monday (as I said) they set their wigwams on fire and went away.
Now away we must go with those barbarous creatures, with our bodies wounded and bleeding, and our hearts no less than our bodies.
They began their din about a mile before they came to us. By their noise and hooping they signified how many they had destroyed (which was at that time twenty three).
I asked him to give me a piece.
Another, seeing many of the Indians about his barn, ventured and went out, but was quickly shot down.
No sooner were we out of the house, but my brother in law (being before wounded, in defending the house, in or near the throat) fell down dead, whereat the Indians scornfully shouted, and hallowed, and were presently upon him, stripping off his clothes, the bullets flying thick, one went through my side, and the same (as would seem) through the bowels and hand of my dear child in my arms.
I had my Bible with me, I pulled it out, and asked her whether she would read.
In this travel, because of my wound, I was somewhat favored in my load; I carried only my knitting work and two quarts of parched meal.
More than twenty years after, I have heard her tell how sweet and comfortable that place was to her.
There remained nothing to me but one poor wounded babe, and it seemed at present worse than death that it was in such a pitiful condition, bespeaking compassion, and I had no refreshing for it, nor suitable things to revive it.
But to return: the Indians laid hold of us, pulling me one way, and the children another, and said, "Come go along with us"; I told them they would kill me: they answered, if I were willing to go along with them, they would not hurt me.
Then they set me upon a horse with my wounded child in my lap, and there being no furniture upon the horse's back, as we were going down a steep hill we both fell over the horse's head, at which they, like inhumane creatures, laughed, and rejoiced to see it, though I thought we should there have ended our days, as overcome with so many difficulties.
I had not seen him before, since the destruction of the town, and I knew not where he was, till I was informed by himself, that he was amongst a smaller parcel of Indians, whose place was about six miles off.
I had one child dead, another in the wilderness, I knew not where, the third they would not let me come near to: "Me (as he said) have ye bereaved of my Children, Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin also, all these things are against me." I could not sit still in this condition, but kept walking from one place to another.
In this time of the absence of his master, his dame brought him to see me.
That day, a little after noon, we came to Squakeag, where the Indians quickly spread themselves over the deserted English fields, gleaning what they could find.
Being very faint I asked my mistress to give me one spoonful of the meal, but she would not give me a taste.
See now that I, even I am he, and there is no god with me, I kill and I make alive, I wound and I heal, neither is there any can deliver out of my hand.
There came an Indian to them at that time with a basket of horse liver.
The Indians were as thick as the trees: it seemed as if there had been a thousand hatchets going at once.
One of the Indians carried my poor wounded babe upon a horse; it went moaning all along, "I shall die, I shall die." I went on foot after it, with sorrow that cannot be expressed. At length I took it off the horse, and carried it in my arms till my strength failed, and I fell down with it.
That was comfort to me, such as it was.
He told me he himself was wounded in the leg at Captain Beer's fight; and was not able some time to go, but as they carried him, and as he took oaken leaves and laid to his wound, and through the blessing of God he was able to travel again.
Oh the doleful sight that now was to behold at this house!
The four cannons echoed each other mournfully.
At the moment when Gavroche was relieving a sergeant, who was lying near a stone door post, of his cartridges, a bullet struck the body.
Gavroche, though shot at, was teasing the fusillade.
"Fichtre!" ejaculated Gavroche.
The smoke in the street was like a fog.
" 'tis the fault of . . .
He rifled the first seven or eight cartridge boxes without much danger.
He played a fearful game of hide and seek with death; every time that the flat nosed face of the spectre approached, the urchin administered to it a fillip.
Thus it went on for some time.
"Don't you see the grape shot?"
The piece which was firing balls was pointed a little high, and the aim was calculated so that the ball struck the extreme edge of the upper crest of the barricade, and crumbled the stone down upon the insurgents, mingled with bursts of grape shot.
The bullets flew after him, he was more nimble than they.
Courfeyrac suddenly caught sight of some one at the base of the barricade, outside in the street, amid the bullets.
Enjolras did not appear to be listening, but had any one been near him, that person would have heard him mutter in a low voice: "Patria."
By dint of advancing, he reached a point where the fog of the fusillade became transparent.
He had the air of being greatly diverted.
"My name is Eight Pounder."
To each discharge he retorted with a couplet.
The object of this mode of firing was to drive the insurgents from the summit of the redoubt, and to compel them to gather close in the interior, that is to say, this announced the assault.
It will be remembered that Fannicot's company had left behind it a trail of bodies.
Whoever has beheld a cloud which has fallen into a mountain gorge between two peaked escarpments can imagine this smoke rendered denser and thicker by two gloomy rows of lofty houses.
A man without a woman is a pistol without a trigger; it is the woman that sets the man off. Well, Enjolras has no woman.
take it by surprise.
A second bullet from the same marksman stopped him short.
It was a charming and terrible sight.
He was not a child, he was not a man; he was a strange gamin fairy.
This time he fell face downward on the pavement, and moved no more.
And assuming the tone of an usher making an announcement, he added:
All were ready.
Those who were left standing continued to serve the pieces with severe tranquillity, but the fire had slackened.
It rose gradually and was incessantly renewed; hence a twilight which made even the broad daylight turn pale.
"Things are going well now," said Bossuet to Enjolras.
The barricade trembled; he sang.
The National Guardsmen and the soldiers laughed as they took aim at him.
Gavroche raised his face:--
It was the sparrow pecking at the sportsmen.
"They are killing my dead men for me."
Gavroche had taken a bottle basket from the wine shop, had made his way out through the cut, and was quietly engaged in emptying the full cartridge boxes of the National Guardsmen who had been killed on the slope of the redoubt, into his basket.
He did not finish.
Gavroche replied:
A fifth bullet only succeeded in drawing from him a third couplet.
There a fourth bullet missed him, again.
They aimed at him constantly, and always missed him.
He crawled flat on his belly, galloped on all fours, took his basket in his teeth, twisted, glided, undulated, wound from one dead body to another, and emptied the cartridge box or cartouche as a monkey opens a nut.
"Success."
He might have been called the invulnerable dwarf of the fray.
On one body, that of a corporal, he found a powder flask.
CHAPTER fifteen-GAVROCHE OUTSIDE
Courfeyrac shouted:--"Come in!"
Twenty cartouches for Gavroche meant a provision of cartridges for the barricade.
The combatants once driven from the crest of the barricade by balls, and from the windows of the cabaret by grape shot, the attacking columns could venture into the street without being picked off, perhaps, even, without being seen, could briskly and suddenly scale the redoubt, as on the preceding evening, and, who knows?
Courfeyrac, seated on a paving stone beside Enjolras, continued to insult the cannon, and each time that that gloomy cloud of projectiles which is called grape shot passed overhead with its terrible sound he assailed it with a burst of irony.
What then?"
Twenty corpses lay scattered here and there on the pavement, through the whole length of the street.
"I'm filling my basket, citizen."
The combatants could hardly see each other from one end of the street to the other, short as it was.
Gavroche was seen to stagger, then he sank to the earth.
The artillery men rapidly performed their manoeuvres in force and placed this second piece in line with the first.
"You are wearing out your lungs, poor, brutal, old fellow, you pain me, you are wasting your row.
"Another quarter of an hour of this success, and there will not be any cartridges left in the barricade."
The barricade, which had long been silent, poured forth a desperate fire; seven or eight discharges followed, with a sort of rage and joy; the street was filled with blinding smoke, and, at the end of a few minutes, athwart this mist all streaked with flame, two thirds of the gunners could be distinguished lying beneath the wheels of the cannons.
"For thirst," said he, putting it in his pocket.
"What are you doing there?" asked Courfeyrac.
In fact, a new personage had entered on the scene.
This was a second piece of ordnance.
One bullet, however, better aimed or more treacherous than the rest, finally struck the will o'-the wisp of a child.
Then he picked up his basket, replaced the cartridges which had fallen from it, without missing a single one, and, advancing towards the fusillade, set about plundering another cartridge box.
And with a single bound he plunged into the street.
He lay down, sprang to his feet, hid in the corner of a doorway, then made a bound, disappeared, re appeared, scampered away, returned, replied to the grape shot with his thumb at his nose, and, all the while, went on pillaging the cartouches, emptying the cartridge boxes, and filling his basket.
Gavroche sang:
"Instanter," said Gavroche.
The insurgents, panting with anxiety, followed him with their eyes.
The barking of these sombre dogs of war replied to each other.
He lives alone, which renders him a little sad, perhaps; Enjolras complains of his greatness, which binds him to widowhood.
It is a thing unheard of that a man should be as cold as ice and as bold as fire."
That's not thunder, it's a cough."
He sprang to his feet, stood erect, with his hair flying in the wind, his hands on his hips, his eyes fixed on the National Guardsmen who were firing, and sang:
Enjolras shook his head and replied:
This outlined the catastrophe.
It appears that Gavroche overheard this remark.
They did not dare to shout to him to return from the barricade, which was quite near, for fear of attracting attention to him.
A second bullet struck a spark from the pavement beside him.--A third overturned his basket.
A few minutes later, the two pieces, rapidly served, were firing point blank at the redoubt; the platoon firing of the line and of the soldiers from the suburbs sustained the artillery.
Their hope did not last long; the gleam was quickly eclipsed.
The prosiness of the originators detracted nothing from the bravery of the movement.
At the entrance to the Rue Bertin Poiree, a very lively and utterly unexpected fusillade welcomed a regiment of cuirrassiers, at whose head marched Marshal General Cavaignac de Barague.
A child fourteen years of age was arrested in the Rue de la Cossonerie, with his pockets full of cartridges.
A platoon of the National Guard would constitute itself on its own authority a private council of war, and judge and execute a captured insurgent in five minutes.
Another sign of the times was the anarchy mingled with governmentalism [the barbarous name of the correct party].
Then everything rises, the pavements begin to seethe, popular redoubts abound.
"Listen," suddenly cried Enjolras, who was still on the watch, "it seems to me that Paris is waking up."
This repression was not effected without some commotion, and without that tumultuous uproar peculiar to collisions between the army and the people.
Are we really going to die like this, without anything to eat?"
He was killed by the cannon, that is to say, by order.
The troops broke in the doors of houses whence shots had been fired; at the same time, manoeuvres by the cavalry dispersed the groups on the boulevards.
His company, the same which had shot Jean Prouvaire the poet, was the first of the battalion posted at the angle of the street.
This movement, executed with more good will than strategy, cost the Fannicot company dear.
They shed their blood lyrically for the counting house; and they defended the shop, that immense diminutive of the fatherland, with Lacedaemonian enthusiasm.
This momentary hesitation gave the insurgents time to re load their weapons, and a second and very destructive discharge struck the company before it could regain the corner of the street, its shelter.
The intrepid and imprudent Fannicot was one of the dead from this grape shot.
Before it had traversed two thirds of the street it was received by a general discharge from the barricade.
CHAPTER thirteen-PASSING GLEAMS
Fierce Lynch law, with which no one party had any right to reproach the rest, for it has been applied by the Republic in America, as well as by the monarchy in Europe.
Civilization, unfortunately, represented at this epoch rather by an aggregation of interests than by a group of principles, was or thought itself, in peril; it set up the cry of alarm; each, constituting himself a centre, defended it, succored it, and protected it with his own head; and the first comer took it upon himself to save society.
An empty cartridge box, a man killed, cannot be replaced.
Those who have preserved some memory of this already distant epoch know that the National Guard from the suburbs was valiant against insurrections.
In plain sight, on the open boulevard, he placed one knee on the ground, shouldered his weapon, fired, killed the commander of the squadron, and turned away, saying: "There's another who will do us no more harm."
He was put to the sword.
"He is a man who does good by gun shots," said Combeferre.
In that bourgeois and heroic time, in the presence of ideas which had their knights, interests had their paladins.
"He did not answer my question."
A moment more, and it was caught between two fires, and it received the volley from the battery piece which, not having received the order, had not discontinued its firing.
Paris quivers supremely, the quid divinum is given forth, a tenth of August is in the air, a twenty ninth of July is in the air, a wonderful light appears, the yawning maw of force draws back, and the army, that lion, sees before it, erect and tranquil, that prophet, France.
Many posts were attacked.
It is certain that, on the morning of the sixth of June, the insurrection broke out afresh for an hour or two, to a certain extent.
This Lynch law was complicated with mistakes.
At bottom, we will observe, there was nothing in all this that was not extremely serious.
In the chaos of sentiments and passions which defend a barricade, there is a little of everything; there is bravery, there is youth, honor, enthusiasm, the ideal, conviction, the rage of the gambler, and, above all, intermittences of hope.
"We are hungry here.
Insurrection and repression do not fight with equal weapons. Insurrection, which is speedily exhausted, has only a certain number of shots to fire and a certain number of combatants to expend.
This does happen sometimes.
For his part, he thought the barricade ripe, and as that which is ripe ought to fall, he made the attempt.
The duke wrote to her two or three times.
'Let Marguerite leave the young man,' he said to me, 'and, as in the past, I will give her all that she requires; if not, let her ask nothing more from me.'"
"I don't in the least know."
She had broken equally with her friends and with her ways, with her words and with her extravagances.
So much I had heard one day when Prudence had said to Marguerite that she had something very important to tell her, and I had listened at the door of the room into which they had shut themselves.
Marguerite seemed to be thinking, for she answered nothing.
Her delight in the smallest things was like that of a child.
Her nature was morbidly open to all impressions and accessible to all sentiments.
I think, between ourselves, that he is enchanted with a caprice which will keep me out of Paris for a time, and so silence the objections of his family.
Marguerite rose from table, and joined the duke in the next room, where she tried, as far as possible, to induce him to forget the incident, but the old man, wounded in his dignity, bore her a grudge for it, and could not forgive her.
You won't ever reproach me for the past? Tell me!"
"But that is not all," continued Marguerite.
It is folly no doubt, but I love him. What would you have me do?
Does all that suit you?"
Prudence was no doubt going to make some reply, but I entered suddenly and flung myself at Marguerite's feet, covering her hands with tears in my joy at being thus loved.
"Yes; he agreed at once."
I took it.
Sometimes the terms of these letters brought tears to my eyes.
"Will you take your horses and carriage?"
Let him keep his money; I will do without it."
The duke's money paid for all that, as you may imagine; but from time to time Prudence came to me, asking for a note for a thousand francs, professedly on behalf of Marguerite.
I told him that I was ill, and that I wanted rest.
From that day forth the duke was never referred to.
No more barriers, my Marguerite; we love; what matters all the rest?"
She avoided everything that might recall to me the life which she had been leading when I first met her.
"What did he say?"
He loves you with all his soul, but he has no fortune capable of supplying your needs, and he will be bound to leave you one day, when it will be too late and when the duke will refuse to do any more for you.
"I have been seeing about a place for Armand to stay."
I passed whole days at the feet of my mistress.
Prudence, on her side, brought down all the people she knew, and did the honours of the house as if the house belonged to her.
He said to her, somewhat cruelly, that he was tired of paying for the follies of a woman who could not even have him treated with respect under his own roof, and he went away in great indignation.
Marguerite could not be without me.
"Well, I have seen the duke."
Not caring what the result might be, she publicly proclaimed our liaison, and I had come to live entirely at her house.
Chapter seventeen
In vain Marguerite dismissed her guests, changed her way of life; the duke was not to be heard of.
A week later Marguerite was settled in her country house, and I was installed at Point du Jour.
However, he has asked me how I, loving Paris as I do, could make up my mind to bury myself in the country.
This courtesan who had cost more money in bouquets than would have kept a whole family in comfort, would sometimes sit on the grass for an hour, examining the simple flower whose name she bore.
"In the same house?" asked Prudence, laughing.
Was I right?" I flung my arms around her neck and kissed her.
"We went all over the house, and we shall have everything perfect.
"I shall take the whole house, and you can look after my place while I am away."
The duke, who had taken the house in order that Marguerite might rest there, no longer visited it, fearing to find himself in the midst of a large and merry company, by whom he did not wish to be seen.
Prudence had strictly sermonized Marguerite in regard to her new manner of life; but she had replied that she loved me, that she could not live without me, and that, happen what might, she would not sacrifice the pleasure of having me constantly with her, adding that those who were not satisfied with this arrangement were free to stay away.
Since that day he had never been heard of.
And then, now that he has got accustomed to be always with me, he would suffer too cruelly if he had to leave me so much as an hour a day.
For two months we had not even been to Paris.
"No," she answered, "I will not leave Armand, and I will not conceal the fact that I am living with him.
My heart beat violently while I waited for her reply.
I had no doubt, from the way in which Marguerite came to meet her, that another similar conversation was going to take place, and I was anxious to hear what it was about.
"What else is there?"
Tears choked my voice.
He seemed to have some difficulty in believing me. The poor old man is always on the watch.
Marguerite was no longer the same woman that I had known.
There were days when she ran in the garden, like a child of ten, after a butterfly or a dragon fly.
Then began an existence which I shall have some difficulty in describing to you.
"As soon as possible."
"I am going to Bougival with the duke; be at Prudence's to night at eight."
Never did wife or sister surround husband or brother with such loving care as she had for me.
"That I would report his decision to you, and I promised him that I would bring you into a more reasonable frame of mind.
The servants addressed me officially as their master.
Would you like me to speak to Armand?"
Besides, I have not such a long time to live that I need make myself miserable in order to please an old man whose very sight makes me feel old.
"Well?" said Marguerite.
Next day Marguerite sent me away very early, saying that the duke was coming at an early hour, and promising to write to me the moment he went, and to make an appointment for the evening.
The duke is going to look after every single thing.
"The house is taken?" asked Prudence.
"Well, it is all settled," she said, as she entered.
"Well," said she, turning to Prudence, and speaking in a broken voice, "you can report this scene to the duke, and you can add that we have no longer need of him."
Not long after, Prudence returned again.
"But what will you do?"
For a whole month there was not a day when Marguerite had not eight or ten people to meals.
Only think, my dear child, of the position that you are losing, and that Armand can never give you.
I was then once more in possession of some ten thousand francs, without reckoning my allowance.
In the course of the day I received this note:
Am I not here?
"Yes," I answered, trying to quiet the scruples which this way of living awoke in me from time to time.
I did not know the duke, but I felt ashamed of deceiving him.
You know I had won some money at gambling; I therefore immediately handed over to Prudence what she asked for Marguerite, and fearing lest she should require more than I possessed, I borrowed at Paris a sum equal to that which I had already borrowed and paid back.
"It will be charming," she continued.
"My life is yours, Marguerite; you need this man no longer.
She recognised the writing and gave me the letters without reading them.
"And you replied?"
Shall I ever leave you, and can I ever repay you for the happiness that you give me?
We will be happy; we will live quietly, and I will say good bye forever to the life for which I now blush.
Alas, we made haste to be happy, as if we knew that we were not to be happy long.
The house was empty, and to let for two thousand francs.
Marguerite's nature was very capricious, and, like so many women, she never regarded as a serious expense those thousand and one distractions which made up her life.
We had now only to decide where we should go.
In spite of herself, Marguerite got accustomed to this new existence, whose salutary effects she already realized.
Since gambling houses were destroyed gambling goes on everywhere.
Climbing flowers clung about the doorway of this uninhabited house, mounting as high as the first story.
"Well, then, Marguerite, let me take it myself."
"Yonder," and Marguerite pointed to the house in question.
As I have told you, I had little money.
I would have consented to anything except the latter.
It was impossible to resist an existence which gave me an easy means of satisfying the thousand caprices of Marguerite.
"Yes, yes, an excellent idea," I stammered, not knowing what I was saying.
"Well, tell the duke to take it for you; he would do so, I am sure.
I made no debts, and I spent three times as much money as when I did not gamble.
However much one loves a woman, whatever confidence one may have in her, whatever certainty her past may offer us as to her future, one is always more or less jealous.
Chapter sixteen
It is worth forty thousand francs a year, and during the ten years that he has had it, he has paid off the security and put aside a dowry for my sister.
Nothing is so expensive as their caprices, flowers, boxes at the theatre, suppers, days in the country, which one can never refuse to one's mistress.
Gambling is only likely to be carried on by young people very much in need of money and not possessing the fortune necessary for supporting the life they lead; they gamble, then, and with this result; or else they gain, and then those who lose serve to pay for their horses and mistresses, which is very disagreeable.
Thus my life, generally so calm, assumed all at once an appearance of noise and disorder.
For the most of them, gambling was a necessity; for me, it was a remedy.
"Do you like it?"
It is not only out of gratitude for the happiness I owe it, but Bougival, in spite of its horrible name, is one of the prettiest places that it is possible to imagine.
Never believe, however disinterested the love of a kept woman may be, that it will cost one nothing.
As for her, she continued to love me as much, or even more than ever.
"That means," said Prudence, "that when I have two days free I will come and spend them with you."
What else could I have done?
Duvernoy.
As for me, I experienced that more than most.
"Am I sure of coming here?"
So, wishing to spend as much time with me as possible, she would write to me in the morning that she would dine with me, not at home, but at some restaurant in Paris or in the country.
I had succeeded without effort or trouble in almost isolating her from her former habits.
One morning I did not go till eight, and there came a day when I did not go till twelve.
"Well, I will arrange that," said Marguerite, freeing my hand, and interpreting my words according to her own desire.
I had by me a young and beautiful woman, whom I loved, and who loved me, and who was called Marguerite; the past had no more reality and the future no more clouds. The sun shone upon my mistress as it might have shone upon the purest bride.
Forgive me if I give you all these details, but you will see that they were the cause of what was to follow.
Jealousy would have kept me awake, and inflamed my blood and my thoughts; while gambling gave a new turn to the fever which would otherwise have preyed upon my heart, and fixed it upon a passion which laid hold on me in spite of myself, until the hour struck when I might go to my mistress.
You know perfectly well that I have no right to accept it save from one man. Let me alone, big baby, and say nothing."
You will readily understand why.
For the rest, not a penny of debt.
Free of Marguerite, I should have been free of gambling.
My expenses were very moderate; only I used up my year's income in eight months, and spent the four summer months with my father, which practically gave me twelve thousand francs a year, and, in addition, the reputation of a good son.
Thus, in the midst of all that, I preserved a considerable amount of self possession; I lost only what I was able to pay, and gained only what I should have been able to lose.
My doctor, whom I had made her meet, had told me that only rest and calm could preserve her health, so that in place of supper and sleepless nights, I succeeded in substituting a hygienic regime and regular sleep.
"Very much."
As I told you, I began by being allowed to stay only from midnight to six o'clock, then I was asked sometimes to a box in the theatre, then she sometimes came to dine with me.
The courtesan disappeared little by little.
"Do you want to go to the real country?" she asked.
"Where?" asked Prudence.
My dream vanished at the last words of Prudence, and brought me back to reality so brutally that I was still stunned with the fall.
I began by borrowing five or six thousand francs on my little capital, and with this I took to gambling.
That was the dream that the hot sun brought to me that day through the leaves of the trees, as, lying on the grass of the island on which we had landed, I let my thought wander, free from the human links that had bound it, gathering to itself every hope that came in its way.
Formerly, when one went to Frascati, one had the chance of making a fortune; one played against money, and if one lost, there was always the consolation of saying that one might have gained; whereas now, except in the clubs, where there is still a certain rigour in regard to payments, one is almost certain, the moment one gains a considerable sum, not to receive it.
We walked together in those charming spots which seemed to have been made on purpose to recall the verses of Lamartine or to sing the melodies of Scudo.
People have always associated the country with love, and they have done well; nothing affords so fine a frame for the woman whom one loves as the blue sky, the odours, the flowers, the breeze, the shining solitude of fields, or woods.
I looked at the house so long that I began by thinking of it as mine, so perfectly did it embody the dream that I was dreaming; I saw Marguerite and myself there, by day in the little wood that covered the hillside, in the evening seated on the grass, and I asked myself if earthly creatures had ever been so happy as we should be.
For the rest, chance was on my side.
I had taken her cure in hand, and the poor girl, seeing my aim, obeyed me in order to prove her gratitude.
What I tell you is a true and simple story, and I leave to it all the naivete of its details and all the simplicity of its developments.
From that time, seeing that I could not change my mistress's life, I changed my own.
She would come in tired, take a light supper, and go to bed after a little music or reading, which she had never been used to do.
Just then, one fine day in summer, Marguerite was awakened by the sunlight pouring into her room, and, jumping out of bed, asked me if I would take her into the country for the whole day.
As Prudence had told us, it was the real country, and, I must add, it was a real lunch.
But, sooner than the moral metamorphosis, a physical metamorphosis came about in Marguerite.
With her unchanging good humour and her eternal appetite, she never left a dull moment to those whom she was with, and was perfectly happy in ordering eggs, cherries, milk, stewed rabbit, and all the rest of the traditional lunch in the country.
We left the house, and started on our return to Paris, talking over the new plan.
I would call for her, and we would dine and go on to the theatre, often having supper as well; and by the end of the evening I had spent four or five louis, which came to two or three thousand francs a month, which reduced my year to three months and a half, and made it necessary for me either to go into debt or to leave Marguerite.
This, then, was my position when I made the acquaintance of Marguerite. You can well understand that, in spite of myself, my expenses soon increased.
Marguerite was dressed in white, she leaned on my arm, saying over to me again under the starry sky the words she had said to me the day before, and far off the world went on its way, without darkening with its shadow the radiant picture of our youth and love.
I came to Paris, studied law, was called to the bar, and, like many other young men, put my diploma in my pocket, and let myself drift, as one so easily does in Paris.
"Let us go and see if it is to let."
I wished above all not to leave myself time to think over the position I had accepted, for, in spite of myself, it was a great distress to me.
The habit or the need of seeing me which Marguerite had now contracted had this good result: that it forced me to leave the gaming table just at the moment when an adroit gambler would have left it.
"Yes."
"And for whom else should I bury myself here, if not for you?"
Duvernoy being needful on account of the old duke, Prudence was one of those women who seem made on purpose for days in the country.
Beyond that, Paris in the mist!
"Ah, delicious!" replied Prudence.
I'll see about it if you like."
Then, and by this I knew the violence of my love, I left the table without a moment's hesitation, whether I was winning or losing, pitying those whom I left behind because they would not, like me, find their real happiness in leaving it.
At the end of six weeks the count was entirely given up, and only the duke obliged me to conceal my liaison with Marguerite, and even he was sent away when I was there, under the pretext that she was asleep and had given orders that she was not to be awakened.
"Would you be happy here?" she said to me.
We've got to get there first, that's all."
We could breathe! We could breathe!
The ice cracked with an odd ripping sound, like paper tearing, and the Nautilus began settling downward.
We're shut up in a relatively confined area. If the Nautilus's pumps continually injected streams of boiling water into this space, wouldn't that raise its temperature and delay its freezing?"
"I might add," he went on, "that I'm as handy with a pick as a harpoon. If I can be helpful to the captain, he can use me any way he wants."
For who could predict the minimum time we would need to free ourselves?
Where was Captain Nemo?
Perhaps!
Could we break through it?
But this substance was missing on board and nothing else could replace it.
Captain Nemo set the example and was foremost in submitting to this strict discipline. When his time was up, he yielded his equipment to another and reentered the foul air on board, always calm, unflinching, and uncomplaining.
"He won't turn down your assistance.
Our full electric power was then put on the pumps, which instantly began to expel water from the ballast tanks. After a few minutes we had checked our fall.
Had we risen to the surface of the waves? Had we cleared the Ice Bank?
Shortage of Air
It was writhing in the waters.
"Yes!" I said.
Accordingly, that day it kept getting worse.
"But what can we do?"
"Oh," he exclaimed, "if only my Nautilus were strong enough to stand that much pressure without being crushed!"
The second is death by asphyxiation.
It was futile to attack the ceiling since that surface was the Ice Bank itself, more than four hundred meters high.
I'm ready to do anything I can for the common good."
That day, the sixth of our imprisonment, Captain Nemo concluded that picks and mattocks were too slow to deal with the ice layer still separating us from open water-and he decided to crush this layer. The man had kept his energy and composure.
Aren't you aware that this force could be the instrument of our salvation rather than our destruction?"
This inexplicable individual acted like a mathematics professor working out a problem for his pupils.
The next day, march twenty sixth, I returned to my miner's trade, working to remove the fifth meter.
"Can the panels in the lounge be left open?"
"I think so," he answered me.
So we can't rely on nature to rescue us, only our own efforts.
"My friends," I said, "we're in a serious predicament, but I'm counting on your courage and energy."
I squeezed it in an involuntary convulsion.
Some moments later, we saw a dozen crewmen set foot on the shelf of ice, among them Ned Land, easily recognized by his tall figure. Captain Nemo was with them.
I didn't tell my two companions about this new danger. There was no point in dampening the energy they were putting into our arduous rescue work.
I realized that I was about to die . . .
I informed the captain of Ned's proposition, which was promptly accepted.
"Borings will tell us that.
All this water contained a considerable amount, and after it was decomposed by our powerful batteries, this life giving elastic fluid could have been restored to us. I had thought it all out, but to no avail because the carbon dioxide produced by our breathing permeated every part of the ship. To absorb it, we would need to fill containers with potassium hydroxide and shake them continually.
Work began immediately and was carried on with tireless tenacity. Instead of digging all around the Nautilus, which would have entailed even greater difficulties, Captain Nemo had an immense trench outlined on the ice, eight meters from our port quarter. Then his men simultaneously staked it off at several points around its circumference.
"Without taking into account," Ned answered, "that once we're out of this damned prison, we'll still be cooped up beneath the Ice Bank, without any possible contact with the open air!"
What a night! I'm unable to depict it.
The Nautilus did not stir.
The water struck me as unusually cold, but I warmed up promptly while wielding my pick.
We were the Ice Bank's prisoners! The Canadian banged a table with his fearsome fist.
For an instant I was gripped by despair. My pick nearly slipped from my hands.
Such sufferings are indescribable. The next day I was short winded.
Before the Nautilus could return to the surface of the waves, couldn't we all die of asphyxiation?
The Nautilus slowly settled and rested on the icy bottom at a depth of three hundred fifty meters, the depth at which the lower shelf of ice lay submerged.
Headaches and staggering fits of dizziness made me reel like a drunk.
Captain Nemo went out.
All at once, carried away by its frightful excess load, the Nautilus sank into the waters like a cannonball, in other words, dropping as if in a vacuum!
The little air that remained had to be saved for the workmen.
I clutched his hand.
"I know," he told me in that calm tone the most dreadful outlook couldn't change.
He held my hand, he kept encouraging me, and I even heard him mutter:
He could still think, plan, and act.
"Boiling water!" he muttered.
"And we have oxygen in the air tanks for only two days."
"Yes, captain, maybe so.
Oh, if only we had the chemical methods that would enable us to drive out this noxious gas! There was no lack of oxygen.
At last these words escaped his lips:
The captain then broke into speech:
"Sir," the Canadian replied, "this is no time to bore you with my complaints.
"The first way," he went on, "is death by crushing.
"We've escaped being crushed. Now we have only asphyxiation to fear."
Meanwhile, motionless and silent, Captain Nemo stood lost in thought. An idea visibly crossed his mind.
Meanwhile, after twelve hours had gone by, we had removed from the outlined surface area a slice of ice only one meter thick, hence about six hundred cubic meters. Assuming the same work would be accomplished every twelve hours, it would still take five nights and four days to see the undertaking through to completion.
During the night, in line with my forecasts, a new one meter slice was removed from this immense socket.
"After tomorrow," he said, "the air tanks will be empty!"
"Five nights and four days!" I told my companions.
But whatever resistance to crushing the Nautilus may have, it still couldn't stand such dreadful pressures, and it would be squashed as flat as a piece of sheet iron."
In fact, I could feel it assuming an oblique position, lowering its stern and raising its spur.
Had he perished?
Supervising our work, working himself, Captain Nemo passed near me just then.
Half lying on a couch in the library, I was suffocating. My face was purple, my lips blue, my faculties in abeyance. I could no longer see or hear.
"How long," I asked, "will the oxygen in the air tanks enable us to breathe on board?"
But when I returned on board, I mentioned this serious complication to Captain Nemo.
And yet nobody prolonged his underwater work beyond the time allotted him.
By then I should have been used to this type of talk!
The captain understood and gave me a signal to follow him. We returned on board.
I couldn't answer him.
Just then the whole crew returned on board, and the double outside door was closed.
My movements were quite free, although they were executed under a pressure of thirty atmospheres.
But he seemed to brush it aside. He told himself no
An apt remark.
After I monitored the operation's progress, double checking it with many inspections, I told the captain, "It's working."
"Which one?" I asked.
"Don't you understand," he went on, "that the congealing of this water could come to our rescue?
"As for asphyxiation, captain," I replied, "that isn't a cause for alarm, because the air tanks are full."
The Ice Bank's side walls and underbelly had visibly thickened.
"Gentlemen," he said in a calm voice, "there are two ways of dying under the conditions in which we're placed."
Instead of breathing it themselves, they had saved it for me, and while they were suffocating, they poured life into me drop by drop!
It brought tears to my eyes to hear him say these words.
Captain Nemo then bored into the lower surface. There we were separated from the sea by a ten meter barrier. That's how thick the iceberg was.
In any event the Nautilus was going to try.
For several hours that day, I wielded my pick doggedly. The work kept me going.
"Oh, if only I didn't have to breathe, to leave more air for master!"
Separating us from the open air was a mere tract of ice.
That was one degree gained. Two hours later the thermometer gave only minus four degrees.
The pressure gauge soon indicated an ascending movement.
That evening Captain Nemo was forced to open the spigots of his air tanks and shoot a few spouts of fresh oxygen through the Nautilus's interior. Without this precaution we wouldn't have awakened the following morning.
We tilted.
Besides, working meant leaving the Nautilus, which meant breathing the clean oxygen drawn from the air tanks and supplied by our equipment, which meant leaving the thin, foul air behind.
At his orders the craft was eased off, in other words, it was raised from its icy bed by a change in its specific gravity. When it was afloat, the crew towed it, leading it right above the immense trench outlined to match the ship's waterline. Next the ballast tanks filled with water, the boat sank, and was fitted into its socket.
But this hardly mattered so long as the lower surface kept growing thinner.
We must counteract this solidification. We must hold it in check.
The Nautilus's chief officer supervised us.
"Well?" I asked, not catching the captain's meaning.
Another day?
The admission of additional water was enough to shift its balance.
His shift over, each man surrendered to a gasping companion the air tank that would revive him.
Were this ship and everyone on board doomed to perish in this tomb of ice? It was a dreadful state of affairs.
"Boiling water?" I exclaimed.
The Nautilus was traveling at the frightful speed of forty miles per hour.
What was the point of this digging if I was to die smothered and crushed by this water turning to stone, a torture undreamed of by even the wildest savages! I felt like I was lying in the jaws of a fearsome monster, jaws irresistibly closing.
Not only are the side walls closing in, but there aren't ten feet of water ahead or astern of the Nautilus. All around us, this freeze is gaining fast."
By the next day, march twenty seventh, six meters of ice had been torn from the socket.
My lungs were gasping in their quest for that enkindling elastic fluid required for breathing, now growing scarcer and scarcer.
Obviously they would come together before the Nautilus could break free.
But we faced it head on, each one of us determined to do his duty to the end.
Brought to full speed, the propeller made the sheet iron hull tremble down to its rivets, and we sped northward.
I tried to push the device away. They held my hands, and for a few moments I could breathe luxuriously.
I would be dead first!
Near three o'clock in the afternoon, this agonizing sensation affected me to an intense degree. Yawns dislocated my jaws.
Long bores were driven into the side walls; but after fifteen meters, the instruments were still impeded by the thickness of those walls.
But the ship's air tanks were nearly empty.
We waited, we listened, we forgot our sufferings, we hoped once more. We had staked our salvation on this one last gamble.
Arms grew weary, hands were rubbed raw, but who cared about exhaustion, what difference were wounds? Life sustaining air reached our lungs!
Some crewmen were at their last gasp.
When I returned on board, I felt half suffocated.
"Excellent, Ned," I said, extending my hand to the Canadian.
Before digging into the ice, the captain had to obtain borings, to insure working in the best direction.
My eyes flew toward the clock.
I'm unable to estimate the hours that passed in this way. But I was aware that my death throes had begun.
Get there first!
"It's worth trying!" I said resolutely.
"Without ill effect.
I had lost all sense of time. My muscles had no power to contract.
It was now the twenty sixth. We had lived off the ship's stores for five days! And all remaining breathable air had to be saved for the workmen. Even today as I write these lines, my sensations are so intense that an involuntary terror sweeps over me, and my lungs still seem short of air!
I broke out in a cold sweat.
He had subdued physical pain with moral strength.
"So let's try it, professor."
"Professor Aronnax," he told me, "this calls for heroic measures, or we'll be sealed up in this solidified water as if it were cement."
CHAPTER sixteen
Therefore, let's concentrate on our chances of being crushed or asphyxiated."
Suddenly I regained consciousness.
He pondered.
Had his companions died with him?
"Sure," Ned Land went on, "but it remains to be seen whether we'll make for the Atlantic or the Pacific, in other words, whether we'll end up in well traveled or deserted seas."
Geese and duck alighted by the dozens on the platform and soon took their places in the ship's pantry. As for fish, I specifically observed some bony fish belonging to the goby genus, especially some gudgeon two decimeters long, sprinkled with whitish and yellow spots.
Instantly there he was, thrown on his back, legs in the air, his body half paralyzed, and yelling:
"All right, all right!" the Canadian repeated in embarrassment.
We cut the Equator.
Its fishing finished, the Nautilus drew nearer to the coast. In this locality a number of sea turtles were sleeping on the surface of the waves.
"Oh well," the Canadian said, "we'll give him the slip long before then."
It would have been difficult to capture these valuable reptiles, because they wake up at the slightest sound, and their solid carapaces are harpoon proof.
"Not too much, to be candid with master.
The positions reported each day on the world map were put there by the chief officer, and they enabled me to determine the Nautilus's exact heading. Now then, that evening it became obvious, much to my satisfaction, that we were returning north by the Atlantic route.
For once in his life, the poor lad didn't address me "in the third person."
Here seals and otters could indulge in a sumptuous meal, mixing meat from fish with vegetables from the sea, like the English with their Irish stews.
The memory of that imprisonment under the ice faded from our minds. We had thoughts only of the future.
Near eleven o'clock in the morning, we cut the Tropic of Capricorn on the thirty seventh meridian, passing well out from Cape Frio.
Later Sir Richard Hawkins called them the Maidenland, after the Blessed Virgin.
Our strength returned promptly, and when I looked around, I saw that we were alone on the platform.
"Yes, my friend," I answered, "it was an electric ray that put you in this deplorable state."
"After the South Pole, does our captain want to tackle the North Pole, then go back to the Pacific by the notorious Northwest Passage?"
It was white underneath and reddish on top, with big round spots of deep blue encircled in black, its hide quite smooth and ending in a double lobed fin.
Let master have no fears about breathing.
Some zoophytes were dredged up by the chain of our trawl.
But if we returned to the Pacific, far from every populated shore, what would happen to Ned Land's plans?
But I could breathe, I could inhale the life giving sea air.
Besides, when I saw master fainting, it left me without the slightest desire to breathe. It took my breath away, in a manner of . . ."
From Cape Horn to the Amazon
CHAPTER seventeen
In this way he would complete his underwater tour of the world, going back to those seas where the Nautilus enjoyed the greatest freedom.
This forecast fair weather. And so it proved.
I had no reply to this, and I feared that Captain Nemo wouldn't take us homeward but rather into that huge ocean washing the shores of both Asia and America.
Nobody could be better than a kind and generous man like yourself!"
The Nautilus traveled swiftly.
"I'll eat it."
These were suckerfish from the third family of the subbrachian Malacopterygia.
And what powerful inhalations! The Canadian "drew" like a furnace going full blast.
The floor of this immense valley is made picturesque by mountains that furnish these underwater depths with scenic views. This description is based mostly on certain hand drawn charts kept in the Nautilus's library, charts obviously rendered by Captain Nemo himself from his own personal observations.
Which he did that same evening, but strictly as retaliation. Because, frankly, it tasted like leather.
"And do you know," I added, "what happened since man has almost completely wiped out these beneficial races? Rotting weeds have poisoned the air, and this poisoned air causes the yellow fever that devastates these wonderful countries. This toxic vegetation has increased beneath the seas of the Torrid Zone, so the disease spreads unchecked from the mouth of the Rio de la Plata to Florida!"
"You can repay your debt by coming with me when I leave this infernal Nautilus."
"I'm unable to say, Ned."
In essence, it was an issue of stocking the larder with excellent red meat, even better than beef or veal. Their hunting was not a fascinating sport.
Others looked like upside-down baskets from which wide leaves and long red twigs were gracefully trailing. They swam with quiverings of their four leaflike arms, letting the opulent tresses of their tentacles dangle in the drift. I wanted to preserve a few specimens of these delicate zoophytes, but they were merely clouds, shadows, illusions, melting and evaporating outside their native element.
But our suckerfish would effect their capture with extraordinary certainty and precision. In truth, this animal is a living fishhook, promising wealth and happiness to the greenest fisherman in the business.
"My friends," I replied, very moved, "we're bound to each other forever, and I'm deeply indebted to you-"
Near evening it approached the Falkland Islands, whose rugged summits I recognized the next day.
By then, crowded with jellyfish, squid, and other devilfish, the oceans will have become huge centers of infection, because their waves will no longer possess "these huge stomachs that God has entrusted with scouring the surface of the sea."
"How?"
"Yes," I replied, "because we're going in the direction of the sun, and here the sun is due north."
Not one of them had come up to enjoy the open air.
No crewmen. Not even Captain Nemo.
Your life is worth more than ours. So we had to save it."
The Nautilus passed over these lush, luxuriant depths with tremendous speed.
The first words I pronounced were words of appreciation and gratitude to my two companions.
Next to me my two companions were getting tipsy on the fresh oxygen particles. Poor souls who have suffered from long starvation mustn't pounce heedlessly on the first food given them.
Just then its peak appeared before us, standing out distinctly against the background of the skies.
Right after catching them, our seamen dropped them in buckets of water.
By then all our past sufferings were forgotten.
The sea was of moderate depth.
Will you help me!"
Much to Ned Land's displeasure, Captain Nemo had no liking for the neighborhood of Brazil's populous shores, because he shot by with dizzying speed. Not even the swiftest fish or birds could keep up with us, and the natural curiosities in these seas completely eluded our observation.
"Yes," Ned Land went on.
The same day an odd fishing practice further increased the Nautilus's stores, so full of game were these seas. Our trawl brought up in its meshes a number of fish whose heads were topped by little oval slabs with fleshy edges.
Keeping to its northerly heading, it followed the long windings of South America.
Soon we had cleared the Antarctic Circle plus the promontory of Cape Horn.
These flat disks on their heads consist of crosswise plates of movable cartilage, between which the animals can create a vacuum, enabling them to stick to objects like suction cups.
It was a question of simple arithmetic.
Living in a conducting medium such as water, this bizarre animal can electrocute other fish from several meters away, so great is the power of its electric organ, an organ whose two chief surfaces measure at least twenty seven square feet.
"That's good news," the Canadian replied, "but where's the Nautilus going?"
As for Ned Land, he didn't say a word, but his wide open jaws would have scared off a shark.
"Which I'll take advantage of," the Canadian shot back.
"A first-class barometer, my friend."
The Nautilus would do long, diagonal dives that took us to every level.
Not a thing.
We, on the other hand, didn't have to practice such moderation: we could suck the atoms from the air by the lungful, and it was the breeze, the breeze itself, that poured into us this luxurious intoxication!
One of our nets had hauled up a type of very flat ray that weighed some twenty kilograms; with its tail cut off, it would have formed a perfect disk.
There's enough for everyone."
We would soon settle this important point.
The Canadian and I sat him up; we massaged his contracted arms, and when he regained his five senses, that eternal classifier mumbled in a broken voice:
"Especially once we've left him," Ned Land shot back.
By then we had fared sixteen thousand leagues since coming on board in the seas of Japan.
In these waterways our nets brought up fine samples of algae, in particular certain fucus plants whose roots were laden with the world's best mussels.
I likewise marveled at the numerous medusas, including the most beautiful of their breed, the compass jellyfish, unique to the Falkland seas. Some of these jellyfish were shaped like very smooth, semispheric parasols with russet stripes and fringes of twelve neat festoons.
It was my design to comprise in it all that, before I set myself to write it, I thought I knew of the nature of material objects.
Nor will this appear at all strange to those who are acquainted with the variety of movements performed by the different automata, or moving machines fabricated by human industry, and that with help of but few pieces compared with the great multitude of bones, muscles, nerves, arteries, veins, and other parts that are found in the body of each animal.
And what can physicians conjecture from feeling the pulse unless they know that according as the blood changes its nature it can be rarefied by the warmth of the heart, in a higher or lower degree, and more or less quickly than before?
I was not, however, disposed, from these circumstances, to conclude that this world had been created in the manner I described; for it is much more likely that God made it at the first such as it was to be.
To this I likewise added much respecting the substance, the situation, the motions, and all the different qualities of these heavens and stars; so that I thought I had said enough respecting them to show that there is nothing observable in the heavens or stars of our system that must not, or at least may not appear precisely alike in those of the system which I described.
From the description of inanimate bodies and plants, I passed to animals, and particularly to man.
There is nothing horrible that has ever been written or told about the buccaneer life, which could not have been told about Roc, the Brazilian.
When the pirate captain and his companions were brought before the Governor, he made no pretence of putting them to trial.
Under the brutality, the cruelty, the dishonesty, and the recklessness of the sea robbers of those days, there was nearly always meanness and cowardice.
This story, however, I regard with a great deal of doubt; it has been told of Saladin and many other wicked and famous men, but I do not believe it is an easy thing to frighten a child into going to sleep.
It was his custom in the daytime to walk about, carrying a drawn cutlass, resting easily upon his arm, edge up, very much as a fine gentleman carries his high silk hat, and any one who should impertinently stare or endeavor to quell his high spirits in any other way, would probably have felt the edge of that cutlass descending rapidly through his physical organism.
The Story of Roc, the Brazilian
Roc, as we have said in the beginning of this sketch, was a typical pirate; under certain circumstances he showed himself to have all those brave and savage qualities which Esquemeling esteemed and revered, and under other circumstances he showed those other qualities which Esquemeling despised, but which are necessary to make up the true character of a pirate.
He was a typical pirate.
Buccaneers were outlawed by the Spanish, and were considered as wild beasts to be killed without mercy wherever caught.
But this downfall of a hero simply shows that Esquemeling, although he was a member of the piratical body, and was proud to consider himself a buccaneer, did not understand the true nature of a pirate.
Wonder where Jill was-Jill Bayne, Fayne, Sayne-what the devil-neck hurts, darned uncomfortable seat.
"This is the Hudson River Sporting and Yacht Club."
Seat damp... are clothes absorbing wetness from seat, or seat absorbing dryness from clothes?...
They don't.
Amory smiled a bit.
Alec had a coarse taste in women.
And again-
He found something that he wanted, had always wanted and always would want-not to be admired, as he had feared; not to be loved, as he had made himself believe; but to be necessary to people, to be indispensable; he remembered the sense of security he had found in Burne.
They were too easy, too dangerous to the public mind.
It's a bad town unless you're on top of it.
What?
Two and three look alike-no, not much.
Answer.--That I have about twenty four dollars to my name.
Question.--Well-what's the situation?
That must have been One Hundred and Twelfth back there.
What a dirty river-want to go down there and see if it's dirty-French rivers all brown or black, so were Southern rivers.
"Got a pass?"
"I'll go if you want me to."
Rosalind was outfield, wonderful hitter, Clara first base, maybe.
One Hundred and Twenty seventh Street-or One Hundred and Thirty seventh Street....
The matron doesn't want to repeat her girlhood-she wants to repeat her honeymoon.
"I hate them for being poor.
Is this private?"
Aren't people horrible!"
No desire to sleep with Jill, what could Alec see in her?
I don't want to commit moral suicide.
He fancied a possible future comment of his own.
"Stop worrying-"
A man approached through the heavy gloom.
One O Two instead of One Two Seven.
Genius!"
"Well-" began the man dubiously.
Never before in his life had Amory considered poor people.
Own taste the best; Isabelle, Clara, Rosalind, Eleanor, were all American. Eleanor would pitch, probably southpaw.
He knew that he could sophisticate himself finally into saying that his own weakness was just the result of circumstances and environment; that often when he raged at himself as an egotist something would whisper ingratiatingly: "no
He shivered.
To morrow I'm going to leave New York for good.
I'm not sure.
I'm just resting."
He could live on it three months and sleep in the park.
It's the ugliest thing in the world.
Apartments along here expensive-probably hundred and fifty a month-maybe two hundred.
Where's the darned bell-
Youth is like having a big plate of candy.
"One, two, three, four, five," said Monte Cristo; "five millions-why what a Croesus you are!"
"Yes."
"To the Governor of the Bank.
My funds are deposited there, and you can understand that if I draw out ten millions on the same day it will appear rather strange to the governor.
"Oh, you may make sure of him; his charities alone amount to twenty thousand francs a month."
"What," he stammered, "do you mean to keep that money?
"Certainly," he said, "your receipt is money."
Danglars looked at him askance, as though to ascertain whether he spoke seriously.
"Indeed I do."
"Poor things!"
"The balance would come to about that sum; but keep it, and we shall be quits."
"For what reason?"
But to return to our millions."
Is he a deputy?"
"It is really wonderful," said the count; "above all, if, as I suppose, it is payable at sight."
"Thank you, no, sir."
"Are you then pressed for this money?"
"The other night she left."
"No," said Monte Cristo folding the five notes, "most decidedly not; the thing is so curious, I will make the experiment myself.
"Yes; for the examination of our cash takes place to morrow."
Oh, how happy you must be in not having either wife or children!"
Do you know, count, that persons of our time of life-not that you belong to the class, you are still a young man,--but as I was saying, persons of our time of life have been very unfortunate this year.
"I have brought my receipt."
But still, we have quite lost our dear Eugenie; for I doubt whether her pride will ever allow her to return to France."
What a proposition!"
"Well, I must confess, these are scruples."
Why, it is as good as a century!
Where is her stepmother?
Monte Cristo replaced the notes in his pocket with that indescribable expression which seemed to say, "Come, reflect; if you repent there is still time."
Stay, count," he added, "you, who may be called the emperor, if I claim the title of king of finance, have you many pieces of paper of this size, each worth a million?"
"And if that were the case it would be worth while to make some sacrifice."
"Certainly, I excuse you," said Monte Cristo graciously, "and pocket them." And he placed the bonds in his pocket book.
"And how much did they possess?"
"No," said the banker; "I have appeared rather ridiculous since that affair of Benedetto, so I remain in the background."
"I will come myself."
Excuse me, excuse me, but I owe this money to the charity fund,--a deposit which I promised to pay this morning."
Philosophers may well say, and practical men will always support the opinion, that money mitigates many trials; and if you admit the efficacy of this sovereign balm, you ought to be very easily consoled-you, the king of finance, the focus of immeasurable power."
But whom are you seeking, Debray?"
"It is magnificent!
"Well," said he, extending his hand to Monte Cristo, "I suppose you have come to sympathize with me, for indeed misfortune has taken possession of my house.
Why did you not tell me so before?
"Yes; but without fail."
The banker saw the carriage of the count enter the court yard, and advanced to meet him with a sad, though affable smile.
How absurd-as if one crown were not as good as another.
"They gave all their fortune to the hospitals."
"At two o'clock."
"To morrow?
"Here is his receipt.
"How so?"
"What new calamity?"
"Yes," he answered, "if a fortune brings consolation, I ought to be consoled; I am rich."
"You do not doubt it?"
"Oh, not much-from twelve to thirteen hundred thousand francs.
I will take the five scraps of paper that I now hold as bonds, with your signature alone, and here is a receipt in full for the six millions between us.
"The truth, my dear count.
"Then I may keep this money?"
"Then it will be to morrow."
"Yes; well?"
Two days will be a different thing," said Danglars, smiling.
Why, this Count of Monte Cristo must be a nabob?"
"Because they would not spend money so guiltily acquired."
"Still, he ought to have been here," said Debray; "I wonder what will be talked about to night; this funeral is the news of the day.
But hush, here comes our minister of justice; he will feel obliged to make some little speech to the cousin," and the three young men drew near to listen.
"But," said Danglars, "there is still a sum of one hundred thousand francs?"
There was a moment's silence, during which the noise of the banker's pen was alone heard, while Monte Cristo examined the gilt mouldings on the ceiling.
"Listen-when one bears an irreproachable name, as I do, one is rather sensitive."
"Pardon me, count, pardon me."
"My daughter"--
"Who is he?"
"Certainly; it will only cost you a discount of five thousand or six thousand francs." The receiver started back.
"It is one of the best houses in Europe," said Danglars, carelessly throwing down the receipt on his desk.
"Do you think so?"
He was punctual, dressed in black, with crape around his hat, and presented himself at his cousin's with a face made up for the occasion, and which he could alter as might be required.
"Yes," said Danglars, while the perspiration started from the roots of his hair.
"no"
"Send at twelve," said Danglars, smiling.
"I think he is about to leave Paris; he was going to his banker."
"Good morning, creditor," said he; "for I wager anything it is the creditor who visits me."
"No!"
"Have you mentioned this death in your paper?"
"No," said Danglars, "no, decidedly no; keep my signatures.
"Come," said Boville, with a tone of entire incredulity, "five millions to that gentleman who just left, and who bowed to me as though he knew me?"
"Are they Spanish, Haitian, or Neapolitan bonds?" said Monte Cristo.
"His banker?
"What example?"
"I must visit him," he said, "and obtain some pious grant from him."
Please pay to my order, from the fund deposited by me, the sum of a million, and charge the same to my account.
At the door he found his carriage, and was immediately driven to the bank.
"Yes, keep it-keep it."
"I registered their deed of gift yesterday."
But when the eye of my mind is opened to its beauty, the bare ground brightens beneath my feet, and the hedge row bursts into leaf, and the rose tree shakes its fragrance everywhere.
Without imagination what a poor thing my world would be!
My fingers are tickled to delight by the soft ripple of a baby's laugh, and find amusement in the lusty crow of the barnyard autocrat.
If you will follow me patiently, you will find that "there's a sound so fine, nothing lives 'twixt it and silence," and that there is more meant in things than meets the eye.
What I call beauty I find in certain combinations of all these qualities, and is largely derived from the flow of curved and straight lines which is over all things.
They rise and sink beneath my fingers, they are full of sudden starts and pauses, and their variety is inexhaustible and wonderful.
It symbolizes duty.
I find in a beautiful statue perfection of bodily form, the qualities of balance and completeness.
Although, compared with the life warm, mobile face of a friend, the marble is cold and pulseless and unresponsive, yet it is beautiful to my hand.
Once I had a pet rooster that used to perch on my knee and stretch his neck and crow.
It feels, as I suppose it looks, straight-a dull thought drawn out endlessly.
It is not a complete conception, but a collection of object impressions which, as they come to me, are disconnected and isolated.
But at the very outset we encounter a difficulty.
The hand is my feeler with which I reach through isolation and darkness and seize every pleasure, every activity that my fingers encounter.
It is true, however, that some sculptures, even recognized masterpieces, do not please my hand.
I wanted to catch a picture of him in my fingers, and I touched him as lightly as I would cobwebs; but lo, his fat body revolved, stiffened and solidified into an upright position, and his tongue gave my hand a lick!
The blind are not supposed to be the best of guides.
Like Job, I feel as if a hand had made me, fashioned me together round about and moulded my very soul.
You are so accustomed to light, I fear you will stumble when I try to guide you through the land of darkness and silence.
The hardness of the rock is to the hardness of wood what a man's deep bass is to a woman's voice when it is low.
In large measure we travel the same highways, read the same books, speak the same language, yet our experiences are different.
That is what it means.
My fingers cannot, of course, get the impression of a large whole at a glance; but I feel the parts, and my mind puts them together.
I move around my house, touching object after object in order, before I can form an idea of the entire house.
He was rolling on the grass, with pleasure in every muscle and limb.
When water is the object of my thought, I feel the cool shock of the plunge and the quick yielding of the waves that crisp and curl and ripple about my body.
I know how budding trees look, and I enter into the amorous joy of the mating birds, and this is the miracle of imagination.
Its flowing curves and bendings are a real pleasure; only breath is wanting; but under the spell of the imagination the marble thrills and becomes the divine reality of the ideal. Imagination puts a sentiment into every line and curve, and the statue in my touch is indeed the goddess herself who breathes and moves and enchants.
Remember that you, dependent on your sight, do not realize how many things are tangible.
The garments of the Victory thrust stiffly out behind, and do not resemble garments that I have felt flying, fluttering, folding, spreading in the wind.
Ideas make the world we live in, and impressions furnish ideas.
In any case, it is pleasant to have something to talk about that no one else has monopolized; it is like making a new path in the trackless woods, blazing the trail where no foot has pressed before.
With the dropping of a little word from another's hand into mine, a slight flutter of the fingers, began the intelligence, the joy, the fullness of my life.
It is the hand that binds me to the world of men and women.
So you see I am not shut out from the region of the beautiful, though my hand cannot perceive the brilliant colours in the sunset or on the mountain, or reach into the blue depths of the sky.
The coolness of a water lily rounding into bloom is different from the coolness of an evening wind in summer, and different again from the coolness of the rain that soaks into the hearts of growing things and gives them life and body.
So imagination crowns the experience of my hands.
I
All my comings and goings turn on the hand as on a pivot.
Still, though I cannot warrant not to lose you, I promise that you shall not be led into fire or water, or fall into a deep pit.
THE SEEING HAND
Therefore a house with which I am not familiar has for me, at first, no general effect or harmony of detail.
A bird in my hand was then worth two in the-barnyard.
They appear and disappear, are now deep, now shallow, now broken off or lengthened or swelling.
In other people's houses I can touch only what is shown to me-the chief objects of interest, carvings on the wall, or a curious architectural feature, exhibited like the family album.
You might as well say that a sight which makes you glad, or a blow which brings the stinging tears to your eyes, is unreal as to say that those impressions are unreal which I have accumulated by means of touch.
In all my experiences and thoughts I am conscious of a hand.
When I think of hills, I think of the upward strength I tread upon.
But my mind is full of associations, sensations, theories, and with them it constructs the house.
All palpable things are mobile or rigid, solid or liquid, big or small, warm or cold, and these qualities are variously modified.
This small incident started me on a chat about hands, and if my chat is fortunate I have to thank my dog star.
The pleasing changes of rough and smooth, pliant and rigid, curved and straight in the bark and branches of a tree give the truth to my hand.
When I touch what there is of the Winged Victory, it reminds me at first of a headless, limbless dream that flies towards me in an unrestful sleep.
Eloquence to the touch resides not in straight lines, but in unstraight lines, or in many curved and straight lines together.
A tangible object passes complete into my brain with the warmth of life upon it, and occupies the same place that it does in space; for, without egotism, the mind is as large as the universe.
My garden would be a silent patch of earth strewn with sticks of a variety of shapes and smells.
When I have something to do that must not be set aside, I feel as if I were going forward in a straight line, bound to arrive somewhere, or go on forever without swerving to the right or to the left.
He loved it with his tail, with his paw, with his tongue.
The silent worker is imagination which decrees reality out of chaos.
To escape this moralizing you should ask, "How does the straight line feel?"
If he could speak, I believe he would say with me that paradise is attained by touch; for in touch is all love and intelligence.
"Be quiet!" Solomon Owl thundered.
"I forgot," he murmured.
And, worst of all, food became scarce.
If anybody asked his opinion he was ready to give it.
"That's easy," his cousin answered.
He said that he could dry his coat after he reached home; while if he stopped to dry it at the edge of the brook perhaps he'd never get home at all.
"What are your claws for?
I want you to tell me what I'll find to eat when I go to the orchard."
"I've about made up my mind," said Simon Screecher, "that I'd move to some other neighborhood.
And the nights were colder.
"I wish he'd wait a minute," Master Meadow Mouse grumbled as he tore after his cousin once more.
And it has seven different crusts, one under another."
And he knew that muskrats lived under its banks.
The days were cold.
"In the orchard!" his cousin cried.
"THERE'S no sense in wasting our time here," said Solomon Owl to his small cousin, Simon Screecher.
"I forgot," said Simon Screecher once more.
"This is what comes of a hard winter."
Unfortunately, all the promises in the world wouldn't give him a square meal when he needed one.
"Then explain what you mean!" Master Meadow Mouse cried.
He was a person of few words.
For Master Meadow Mouse caught a glimpse of a snakelike head that darted out from under the bank of the brook and darted back again, out of sight.
I'll step right out of my tunnel and have my swim without taking a look see first." But Master Meadow Mouse was never so lazy as that.
So I suppose I'll have to run after him again and ask him what he meant."
twenty one
"That's easy," his cousin replied.
The fourth time that Master Meadow Mouse found his cousin he took no chances.
Many of the forest folk stole down from Blue Mountain after nightfall and visited the farmyard in the hope of getting a bite of something or other.
To be sure, Master Meadow Mouse tried to be careful.
And he dived out of the old oak straight at Master Meadow Mouse.
"I ought to have put wire netting around those young trees," he told the hired man.
While he was speaking, Solomon Owl started ever so slightly.
"How can I eat a tree?" Master Meadow Mouse demanded.
What's your beak for?"
And the day came at last when it was well worth his while to take the little extra trouble of peeping out before he had his swim.
Nor did he disdain so small a stream as the brook that crossed the meadow.
When one of them caught sight of peter Mink he never failed-if he was in the water-to give a loud slap upon the surface with his tail.
To tell the truth, Master Meadow Mouse always felt safer when one of the Muskrat family happened to be taking a swim at the same time.
twenty
He enjoyed swimming. And he spent a great deal of his time along the streams that threaded their way through Pleasant Valley.
But no Meadow Mouse will ever venture out of doors if you're going to whistle."
It made little difference to him whether there was a dry strip along the edge of the stream, where he could steal silently along without wetting his feet.
"You advised me to get more food," said Master Meadow Mouse.
And then he hurried away again.
Simon Screecher was silenced for the time being.
Sometimes he lingered for days in the neighborhood of Black Creek.
"Get more!" And then he hurried away, for he had important business to attend to.
"Don't do that!" he said sharply.
It was the first big meal he had enjoyed for weeks.
And it wasn't long before Solomon Owl gave another start.
Now, Master Meadow Mouse had a tunnel that led right beneath the tree where the two cousins were sitting.
"I didn't suppose that chap would be here as soon as this," he gasped. "He must have hurried over here from the woods.
He must be miles away.
"Why didn't you grab him out of the snow?" Simon asked.
The snow was deep.
"Yes!"
At that moment his cousin began to whistle again.
When he found no place to walk, he swam.
And then-if he saw nobody that was fiercer than Paddy Muskrat-only then would he venture to skip to the water's edge and plunge in.
I don't think there are many Mice left on Farmer Green's place. It's my opinion that they've moved away-most of them.
"Eat the bark!" his cousin answered.
"Do you want to scare the Mice?" Simon Screecher cut his whistle off right in the middle of it.
"I couldn't dig him out," Solomon Owl replied.
He must be very hungry."
"The snow is three feet deep.
"But you didn't tell me where to get it."
He had stored away a stock of food.
Owl Friends
"You're not going to get away from me till I've found out what I want to know," he declared.
He peeped under the bank of the brook.
Before he crept from the end of his tunnel, he stuck his head out and looked up and down and all around.
And he went home feeling that the winter was not so hard as he had thought, after all.
The Mice will all be out sooner or later.
Just because there was skating for Johnnie Green on top of the brook it mustn't be supposed that Master Meadow Mouse wasn't going to have a swim when he wanted one.
"I can't eat trees.
When peter Mink wandered along a stream in winter he preferred to travel under the ice, rather than walk upon the upper side of it.
If it hadn't been for the meadow mice perhaps he wouldn't have visited the brook so often.
For the Muskrats all had a warning signal that told everybody when there was danger.
Several times Master Meadow Mouse took the wrong turn and had to retrace his steps. But at last he found his busy cousin again.
"Trees!" Master Meadow Mouse echoed.
"This is a hard winter," said Simon Screecher.
"Missed him-didn't you?" he inquired.
Sometimes peter dawdled on the banks of Swift River.
"This is my first winter," Master Meadow Mouse explained.
When he happened to go into the orchard one day, later, and saw tree after tree ruined, he was very, very much displeased.
Master Meadow Mouse promised himself that he would not repeat it another time.
It was deep enough for a swim.
"Trees!" Having said those three words he dashed off again even faster than before.
"I've been chasing you.
Master Meadow Mouse always had one ear that was listening for that slap. And when it sounded he never waited an instant, but darted into his tunnel without even stopping to shake the water off his coat.
It was he that stuck his head out of a hole in the snow and peeped up at the star sprinkled sky.
But of course you can't surprise them if you tell them you're coming.
"I wish I'd gone South last fall.
He even stared into the water.
A Cold Dip
And he had strolled that way after scurrying under the snow when he heard Solomon Owl laughing in the woods earlier in the evening.
IN one way peter Mink was like Master Meadow Mouse.
"It's a fine night.
"That's the reason why you can't catch more Mice," Solomon Owl snapped; for he was angry.
Eating a Tree
He caught his cousin by his tail and held on firmly.
But it hadn't been big enough.
"I believe it is getting nearer, too."
AS SIMON SCREECHER remarked to his cousin, Solomon Owl, it was a hard winter.
nineteen
But Farmer Green didn't agree with him.
It was he that Solomon heard.
But he seldom gave any unsought advice.
"You can't!" his cousin replied, struggling desperately to free himself, for he was too busy to stop long.
If I knew where there was good mousing I'd move to morrow."
It seemed as if there wasn't anything to eat anywhere except at the farm buildings, which Farmer Green had stuffed full of hay and grain during the summer and autumn.
There must be something that my cousin forgot to explain.
"There's that squeak again!" he whispered.
Then-and not till then-did Master Meadow Mouse let him go.
Simon Screecher was more than willing.
It was hard to follow his cousin through the winding galleries beneath the snow.
Master Meadow Mouse chased his cousin no more, but hurried away to Farmer Green's orchard, where he gnawed a ring all the way around one of the young fruit trees, at the top of the snow.
Solomon Owl stopped him quickly.
So he ran one of his many snow tunnels to the brook, making a little opening that led under the ice, where the water had fallen away and left a cavern.
You might think that now and then he would have said to himself, "Oh, I won't bother to look for peter Mink to day.
Or maybe old Rough leg, the Hawk, has caught more than his share.
The cousin seemed surprised when Master Meadow Mouse overtook him.
And that was a great mistake.
"I don't feel like running.
Let's go over and sit in that old oak on the edge of the meadow!"
"If I'm not mistaken I heard a squeak.
Upon the framework thus constructed split cedar boards are fastened, and the building is practically finished.
Upon Queen Charlotte Islands there is a dwelling of this kind large enough to hold seven hundred Indians.
The Vancouver Island Indians are called Nootkas, from the name of an important tribe upon the west coast.
They built better homes, took more pains with their clothing, were skilled in the making of canoes, and showed marked ability in navigating the stormy waters of the channels and sounds.
It seems almost certain that these American Indians originally came across the narrow strip of water separating Asia from America.
The Indians often hunt similar animals to day, but believe that their ancestors had supernatural power which raised them above the ordinary creatures.
The baskets are still made in some places, and are much sought after because of their beauty.
It is one of the finest upon the north coast.
A ride in one of the large canoes is an interesting experience. When a party starts out to visit the neighboring villages, carrying invitations to a festival, the men are gayly dressed, and shout and sing in unison as they ply their paddles.
The fronts of the houses are ornamented with figures hewn out of wood.
Many of the Indian tribes developed great skill in the weaving of baskets, which they used for many different purposes.
As may be imagined, such a bath often resulted disastrously to the weak or sick.
The great canoe jumps up and onward like a living thing at every stroke of the paddles, which are dipped into the water all at once as the rowers keep time to their songs.
It must require the united strength of many men to roll such a log into position.
The acorns were ground in stone mortars and made into soup or into a kind of bread.
As we go north the similarity between the coast Indians and the inhabitants of eastern Asia becomes more noticeable.
"Sweat houses" were built in much the same manner, and were used chiefly during the winter.
The figures of animals and birds carved upon it represent the mythological ancestors of the family or clan in front of whose abode the pole stands.
These tribes were almost continually at war.
The "Chinook" jargon is a strange sort of mixed language with which nearly all the tribes of the Northwest are familiar.
This is sometimes two feet in diameter and from sixty to eighty feet long.
The Indians inhabiting the coast northward from the mouth of the Columbia were different in many respects from those farther south or inland.
Although there are so many different tribes, with great diversities of language, throughout the West, they were probably all derived from the same source.
They are very solidly constructed, for these Indians do not move about as much as those farther south where the forests are less dense.
After being partly dried they were packed in bales for winter use.
These Indians, as might be supposed, live largely upon fish.
This wind is so named because it blows from the direction of the Chinook Indians' country.
This deformity is produced by binding a piece of board upon the forehead in babyhood and leaving it there while the head is growing.
Such a house is usually occupied by a number of families.
When the Indians of central California were first seen, they wore but little clothing, and knew how to construct only the simplest dwellings for protection from the weather.
The Indians of northern California in building their homes dug round, shallow holes, over which poles were bent in the form of a half circle, and then tied together at the top.
It is believed that they came originally from Asia, but their migration and scattering occurred so long ago that they have become divided into many groups, each having its own language and customs.
At favorable points along the shore the Indians collected for their feasts, and these spots are now indicated by heaps of shells, in some places forming mounds of considerable size.
When they wished to go out upon the water they built rafts of bundles of rushes or tules tied together.
Where wood was abundant their homes were similar in some respects to those of the coast Indians north of the mouth of the Columbia.
The name "chinook" has been given to a warm, dry wind which blows down the eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains and out upon the Great Plains.
Some of the main groups have undoubtedly been here longer than others.
They live upon the shores of densely wooded, mountainous lands and travel little except by water.
We do not know how long the Indians have occupied our country, but it has probably been several thousand years.
In these boats the Indians take trips of hundreds of miles.
Many of them were among the most degraded upon the continent.
Some of the canoes which these tribes construct are over fifty feet long and will easily carry from fifty to one hundred persons.
Bark was laid upon the outside, and earth was thrown over the whole structure.
THE NATIVE INHABITANTS OF THE PACIFIC SLOPE
The buildings are strung along the shore close under the edge of the thick forest and just above the reach of the waves at high tide.
Through the influence of the trappers and traders the "Chinook" has come into wide use, so that by means of it conversation can be carried on with tribes speaking different languages.
The fish thus prepared were considered very valuable and formed an article of trade with the tribes living farther from the river.
The Chinook Indians live upon the lower Columbia.
Such a canoe is hewn out of a single cedar log, and presents a very graceful appearance with its upward curving bow.
They seemed unable to adapt themselves to the white man and his ways, and in the older settled districts they have now nearly disappeared.
In the newer portions of the Northwest and along the coast toward Alaska the Indians have not yet come into so direct contact with the white men, and remain more nearly in their primitive condition.
These people had many characteristics in common and were all called Indians.
These two groups are very similar.
These represent men, birds and animals and have a religious significance.
Sometimes these figures are mounted upon the tops of tall poles.
In the mountains the sites of the villages are marked by chips of obsidian (a volcanic glass used in making arrow tips) and by holes in the flat surfaces of granitic rocks near some spring or stream.
It would seem natural that about San Francisco Bay the natives should have used canoes, but, according to early travellers, they had none.
When an Indian wished to take a sweat, hot stones were placed in one of these houses, and after he had entered and all openings were closed, he poured water upon the stones until the room was filled with steam.
These holes were made for the purpose of grinding acorns or nuts.
sixty four).
Fish was their main article of diet.
It is formed of words from the Chinook language, together with others from different Indian languages, French Canadian, and English.
The villages are located in some protected spot where the canoes can lie in safety.
After enduring this process as long as he desired, the Indian came out and plunged into the cold water of a near by stream.
They did not cultivate the soil, nor did they hunt a great deal, although the country abounded with game.
One might suppose that the tribes possessing the fair and fertile valleys of California would be the most advanced in civilization, but such was not the case.
The Indians upon the Pacific slope were generally found to be inferior in most respects to those living in the central and eastern portions of the continent.
The explorers and early settlers found a native race occupying nearly every portion of our continent.
Berries are abundant during the summer and are also much used for food. The clothing of the Indians was originally a sort of blanket made of the woven fibres of cedar bark, or more rarely, of the skins of animals, although among the northern tribes skins were used almost exclusively.
In the western portion of the country, where the surface is broken by numerous barriers, such as mountains and deserts, almost every valley was found to be occupied by a distinct group of Indians called a "tribe." The language of each tribe differed so much from the languages of adjoining tribes that they could with difficulty understand one another.
The fact that the California Indians could support themselves without any great exertion undoubtedly had the effect of making them indolent, while in the desert regions of the Great Basin the struggle for something to eat was so severe that it kept the natives in a degraded condition.
Many interesting implements have been dug from these mounds, or kitchen middens as they are sometimes called.
The "totem pole" is a most interesting affair.
"Oh, how can you ask?" she rejoined, in a sharp tone of reproach; "you know too well.
"You can look and see."
She waved him off, begging him, in a subdued, quiet tone, not to draw too near, as any little excitement made her faint now.
Sir Francis swallowed down his coffee, and rang the table hand bell-the only bell you generally meet with in France.
It was too late by weeks and months.
"MOSS and GRAB.
"SIR FRANCIS LEVISON, Bart."
She felt the force of the objections.
This day she had partaken of her early dinner-such as it was, for her appetite failed-and had dozed asleep in the arm chair, when a noise arose from below, like a carriage driving into the courtyard through the porte cochere.
"Francis, have you any consideration left for me-any in the world?"
"Two," was her short reply, her tone sullen as his.
Do you remember it Captain Levison?"
The decked out dandies before the world are frequently the greatest slovens in domestic privacy.
Captain Levison folded up the letter, and placed it securely in an inner pocket.
"It is very well," Pierre responded; and departed to do it.
Captain Levison, unwashed, unshaven, with a dressing gown loosely flung on, lounged in to breakfast.
He quitted the room as he spoke, and Lady Isabel remained in it, the image of despair.
A feeling, amounting to a conviction, rushed over the unhappy lady that she had seen him for the last time until it was too late.
"Sir-After sending off our last, dated to day, we received tidings of the demise of Sir peter Levison, your grand uncle.
"News!"
Should you ever be tempted to abandon your home, so will you awake.
"Nothing can repair the injury, if you once suffer it to come upon him.
In time to make me your wife when the divorce shall appear."
She was looking like the ghost of her former self.
Are you in a state to travel night and day?
"A few days ago you put a letter, open on the table, I thought for me; but when I took it up you swore at me.
"We are, sir, faithfully yours,
"You may drop that odious title, Isabel, which has stuck to me too long.
Quite half the time-taking one absence with the other-he had been away from her, chiefly in Paris, pursuing his own course and his own pleasure.
But it may be expected hourly now."
"Then I must accompany you," she urged.
"For what else should I have thrown it there?" he said.
Another moment, and it was flung open.
She had got so far about as to sit up in the windy chamber; and it seemed to be to her a matter of perfect indifference whether she ever got out of it.
She was anxious for it-anxious that Captain Levison should render her the only reparation in his power before the birth of her unhappy child.
Is it for me to read?"
Little did it seem to matter to Lady Isabel; she sat in one position, her countenance the picture of stony despair.
"Now don't put yourself in a fever, Isabel.
"Good bye, Isabel," said he, without further circumlocution or ceremony.
According to your request, we hasten to forward you the earliest intimation of the fact.
"Pierre says there are some letters," he began.
"Is there any news?" she asked.
It instantly aroused her.
And we remain, sir, most faithfully yours,
Besides, I should not choose for the old man's funeral to take place without me."
He broke from her and left the room, and in another minute had left the house, Pierre attending him.
She had sacrificed husband, children, reputation, home, all that makes life of value to woman.
Sir Francis Levison approached to greet her as he came in.
"F.
"The divorce is granted!" feverishly uttered Lady Isabel.
"May I read the letter?
Never had she experienced a moment's calm, or peace, or happiness, since the fatal night of quitting her home.
"Point de gazette, Pierre?" she said.
It was over, then, and all claim to the name of Carlyle was declared to have been forfeited by the Lady Isabel forever.
"You do not mean what you say?
Of course I have," he continued, in a peevish, though kind tone, as he took hold of her hands to raise her.
The outside of the letter was superscribed as the other, "F.
"What a precious hot day it is!"
"Two letters," she continued, "and they are both in the same handwriting-your solicitors', I believe."
She had become painfully aware of the fact that the man for whom she had chosen to sacrifice herself was bad, but she had not learned all his badness yet.
Nearly a year went by.
"Why did I come?" repeated he.
Even in the first days of her departure, in the fleeting moments of abandonment, when it may be supposed she might momentarily forget conscience, it was sharply wounding her with its adder stings; and she knew that her whole future existence, whether spent with that man or without him, would be a dark course of gnawing retribution.
Lady Isabel remonstrated; she wished to go farther on, where they might get quicker news from England; but her will now was as nothing.
Nearly a year went by, save some six or eight weeks, when, one morning in July, Lady Isabel made her appearance in the breakfast room.
How fared it with Lady Isabel?
"Why did you come now?" she quietly rejoined.
"Of the divorce, I mean?"
He engaged apartments, furnished, in the vicinity of the Place Grenette.
"There has been no delay; quite the contrary.
Is it my fault, if I am called suddenly to England?"
Had he come?
He took a seat opposite to her, and began pushing the logs together with his boot, as he explained that he really could not get away from town before.
Languidly she took her seat at the table, just as Captain Levison's servant, a Frenchman whom he had engaged in Paris, entered the room with two letters.
She had forfeited her duty to God, had deliberately broken his commandments, for the one poor miserable mistake of flying with Francis Levison.
Neither would home be agreeable to you yet awhile."
For if you think my good reader, that the flattering words, the ardent expressions, which usually attend the first go off of these promising unions last out a whole ten months, you are in egregious error.
You will not leave me yet?"
"Have you no pity for your child?" she urged in agitation.
"I cannot wait," he replied, his tone changing to one of determination.
"Are these all the thanks a fellow gets for travelling in this inclement weather?
He made no reply, but seated himself to breakfast.
Lady Isabel Carlyle had spent it on the continent-that refuge for such fugitives-now moving about from place to place with her companion, now stationary and alone.
We have much pleasure in congratulating you upon your accession to the title and estates, and beg to state that should it not be convenient to you to visit England at present, we will be happy to transact all necessary matters for you, on your favoring us with instructions.
"I cannot do otherwise," he answered.
"You had better have written to the law lords to urge on the divorce," he returned.
They were staying now at Grenoble.
Lady-wife-mother!
She had an invalid cap on, and a thick woolen invalid shawl, and she shook and shivered perpetually; though she had drawn so close to the wood fire that there was a danger of her petticoats igniting, and the attendant had frequently to spring up and interpose between them and the crackling logs.
Compliments the very opposite to honey and sweetness have generally supervened long before.
He expired this afternoon in town, where he had come for the benefit of medical advice.
He will be a by word amidst men throughout his life."
Her face was white and worn, her hands were thin, her eyes were sunken and surrounded by a black circle-care was digging caves for them.
"Sir-We beg to inform you that the suit Carlyle vs Carlyle, is at an end.
The guilt, whose aspect had been shunned in the prospective, assumed at once its true frightful color, the blackness of darkness; and a lively remorse, a never dying anguish, took possession of her soul forever.
The very instant-the very night of her departure, she awoke to what she had done.
It had been Captain Levison's recent pleasure that the newspapers should not be seen by Lady Isabel until he had over looked them.
Try it, if you don't believe me.
"Tush!" was the response of Captain Levison, as if wishing to imply that the divorce was yet a far off affair, and he proceeded to open the other letter.
"No, not yet.
"MOSS and GRAB.
Nearly an hour elapsed when she remembered the breakfast things, and rang for them to be removed.
Just as it must be expected to fare, and does fare, when a high principled gentlewoman falls from her pedestal.
CHARMING RESULTS.
"I start for England in an hour."
Taking that town on their way to Switzerland through Savoy, it had been Captain Levison's pleasure to halt in it.
"Who is it?" she asked of the nurse.
Resuming after a moment's pause- "Were you to go to England, you might not be back in time."
Poor thing-poor Lady Isabel!
Lady Isabel waited till the man was gone, and then spoke, a faint flush of emotion in her cheeks.
You must assure that, before all things.
"I wish you would not talk nonsense, Isabel.
The divorce was pronounced without opposition.
"Chance it! chance the legitimacy of the child?
I shall be back in time."
A stranger might have attributed these signs to the state of her health; she knew better -knew that they were the effects of her wretched mind and heart.
I own a better, now."
How many times am I to be compelled to beg that of you!
And all the time the sly fox had got the Times in his coat pocket.
It was very late for breakfast, but why should she rise early only to drag through another endless day?
"What one, pray?"
It was known to her that mr Carlyle had not lost a moment in seeking a divorce and the announcement that it was granted was now daily expected.
She was right.
CHAPTER twenty five.
"At last, thank the pigs!" was the gentleman's euphonious expression, as he tossed the letter, open, on the breakfast table.
"Moss and Grab say they will act for you.
The Alps were covered with snow; Grenoble borrowed the shade, and looked cold, and white, and sleety, and sloppy; the gutters, running through the middle of certain of the streets, were unusually black, and the people crept along especially dismal.
December came in.
"Pierre was making himself ready to attend monsieur to England."
You will speedily gather his motive.
It does no good.
Had there been a necessity for your going, they would not have offered that."
"I cannot help the delay."
Oh, reader, believe me!
"If you have taken this aversion to me, it cannot be helped," he coldly said, inwardly congratulating himself, let us not doubt, at being spared the work of trouble he had anticipated.
What do you take me for?" she repeated, rising in her bitter mortification.
I shall give you a few hundred a year with him."
"You made commotion enough once about me making you reparation."
"The temptation to sin, as you call it, lay not in my persuasions half so much as in your jealous anger toward your husband."
The injury to the child can never be repaired; and, for myself, I cannot imagine any fate in life worse than being compelled to pass it with you."
"Well, Isabel, you must be aware that it is an awful sacrifice for a man in my position to marry a divorced woman."
But you cannot think I am going to see you starve, Isabel.
Her face was more flushed than it had been throughout the interview.
"Your clothes-those you left here when you went to England-you will have the goodness to order Pierre to take away this afternoon.
Had you taken this journey for the purpose of making me your wife, were you to propose to do so this day, and bring a clergyman into the room to perform the ceremony, it would be futile.
Sir Francis walked to the table she indicated, which was at the far end of the great barn of a room, and taking the writing case from it, gave it to her.
And then she sat, striving to calm herself, clasping together her shaking hands.
She shook her head.
"How on the wrong scent?"
Sir Francis threw up his arms and stretched himself, as if a fit of idleness had overtaken him; then advanced to the cradle and pulled down the clothes.
"Who is he like, Isabel?
"The excited state you then appeared to be in, would have precluded your listening to any sort of reason."
She made no reply.
Her arm was within her husband's, and he was relating something to her.
Let there be plain truth between us at this interview, if there never has been before."
"Of course I meant to do so when I gave the promise," he interrupted.
Sir Francis left the room, but not immediately the house.
"I believe so."
You were blindly, outrageously jealous of him."
What the news was, she could not remember afterward, excepting that it was connected with the office and old mr Dill, and that mr Carlyle laughed when he told it.
Her heart beat a little quicker; but she stilled it.
It and the effects must lie upon me forever."
She thought she was back at East Lynne-not back, in one sense, but that she seemed never to have gone away from it-walking in the flower garden with mr Carlyle, while the three children played on the lawn.
When Lady Isabel lay down to rest, she sank into a somewhat calmer sleep than she had known of late; also into a dream.
Will you be so obliging-I am not strong-as to hand me that writing case?"
"I did not judge so," he replied.
And Lady Isabel?
"You deem that it was not in reason that I should aspire to be the wife of Sir Francis Levison?"
"If you have put me beyond the pale of the world, I am still Lord Mount Severn's daughter!"
Alas!
"I would prefer not."
And thus they parted.
"I will not receive it from you.
Remember, though, that it is your doing, not mine.
"Quite true," was her reply.
You have no fortune-you must receive assistance from some one."
"I received these from you a month ago," she said.
Lady Isabel continued,--
"Put away those notes, if you please," she interrupted, not allowing him to finish his sentence.
He took out his pocket book and placed the bank notes within it.
"It is you who have thrown out the challenge, mind."
"But no sooner had I set my foot in London than I found myself overwhelmed with business, and away from it I could not get.
"They came by post."
"If you will accept nothing for yourself, you must for the child.
Even now I can only remain with you a couple of days, for I must hasten back to town."
You need not have reminded me of the mistake."
"I beg of you to cease," she passionately interrupted.
"When I expected or wished, for the 'sacrifice,' it was not for my own sake; I told you so then.
"If you mean that as a reproach to me, it's rather out of place," chafed Sir Francis, whose fits of ill temper were under no control, and who never, when in them, cared what he said to outrage the feelings of another.
"What was the secret?" she inquired, in a low tone.
Since we are mutually on this complimentary discourse, it is of no consequence to smooth over facts."
"All the reparation in your power to make-all the reparation that the whole world can invent could not undo my sin.
She passed her evening alone, sitting in the same place, close to the fire and the sparks.
"The name which ought to have been his by inheritance-'Francis Levison,'" was her icy answer.
You did not intend to be back in time for the marriage, or otherwise you would have caused it to take place ere you went at all."
"It must be."
That was the amount, was it not?"
Sir Francis broke it, pointing with his left thumb over his shoulder in the direction of the cradle.
I do not believe mr Carlyle ever thought of the girl-in that way."
That's all I know."
"Your husband!" sarcastically rejoined Sir Francis.
"Forty pounds.
"Some time subsequent to your departure," she quietly went on, "one of the maids was setting to rights the clothes in your dressing closet, and she brought me a letter she found in one of the pockets.
He need not have told her this.
There he lies."
It was the actual crying of her own child which awoke her-this last child-the ill fated little being in the cradle beside her.
"Not a farthing, now or ever.
"They had a secret between them-not of love-a secret of business; and those interviews they had together, her dancing attendance upon him perpetually, related to that, and that alone."
And then remembering the resolution marked out for herself, subsided outwardly into calmness again.
"And I say I think you are on the wrong scent.
"These apartments are mine now; they have been transferred into my name, and they can never again afford you accommodation.
Sir Francis put the clothes back over the sleeping child, returned to the fire, and stood a few moments with his back to it.
"I had reason to think so."
"Stay," interrupted Lady Isabel, "you need not trouble yourself to find needless excuses.
Why, how can you live?
"Take you for!
"Let's see-how old is he now?"
"You did as much toward putting yourself beyond its pale as-"
"He was born on the last day of August."
But, for a single instant, she forgot recent events and doings, she believed she was indeed in her happy home at East Lynne, a proud woman, an honored wife.
"I must confess I think it may be the wisest course, as things have come to this pass; for a cat and dog life, which would seemingly be ours, is not agreeable.
Have I not said so?" she sharply interrupted.
"What do you mean by 'deal?'" he asked, settling the logs to his apparent satisfaction.
It contained the information that the divorce was pronounced."
He spoke quietly now, quite in an equal tone of reasoning; it was his way when the ill temper was upon him: and the calmer he spoke, the more cutting were his words.
She reached her keys from the stand at her elbow, unlocked the case, and took from it some bank notes.
He did not take the trouble to look at it.
She could not seek out Carlyle herself, so she sent the young lady.
"It would have been better to have undeceived me then; to have told me that the hopes I was cherishing for the sake of the unborn child were worse than vain."
Lady Isabel drew herself up.
"To speak and act.
They appeared to be interrupted by the crying of Archibald; and, in turning to the lawn to ask what was the matter, she awoke.
"I wish you a good day."
"I should have said my late husband.
They did not even take you; better, perhaps that they had though, as things have turned out, or seem to be turning.
Is that to be it?"
"What reason?
"Generous man!"
"So you will not even shake hands with me, Isabel?"
My handsome self?"
She beat her hands before her, as if beating off the man and his words.
I wish to deal with you quite unreservedly, without concealment, or deceit; I must request you so to deal with me."
He rose and began kicking at the logs; with the heel of his boot this time.
"What fancies you do take up!" uttered Francis Levison.
"And never had the grace to acknowledge them," he returned, in a sort of mock reproachful tone.
But he was an ill tempered man; and to hear that the letter had been found to have the falseness of his fine protestations and promises laid bare, did not improve his temper now.
I must request you to tell me."
A flush, deep and painful, dyed her cheeks.
There's some disreputable secret attaching to the Hare family, and Carlyle was acting in it, under the rose, for mrs Hare.
"May heaven help all to do so who may be tempted as I was."
After that, he ordered dinner at a hotel, and the same night he and Pierre departed on their journey home again, Sir Francis thanking his lucky star that he had so easily got rid of a vexatious annoyance.
"I overheard scraps of their conversation now and then in those meetings, and so gathered my information."
"How did you know it?"
Take them!"
"Well, if you will persist in this perverse resolution, I cannot mend it," resumed Sir Francis.
And now, Sir Francis, I believe that is all: we will part."
In saying this, it ought to convince you that the topic may cease."
"You are breaking faith already," she said, after hearing him calmly to the end.
"Don't I know it?
"You ladies should think of that beforehand."
"What do you take me for?"
The hectic flushed into her thin cheeks, but her voice sounded calm as before.
Do not make my arm ache, holding out these notes to you so long!
"With regard to your husband and that Hare girl.
"I am the representative now of an ancient and respected baronetcy," he resumed, in a tone as of apology for his previous heartless words, "and to make you my wife would so offend all my family, that-"
"In a little time you may probably wish to recall it; in which case a line, addressed to me at my banker's, will-"
"Naked truth, unglossed over," she pursued, bending her eyes determinately upon him.
Whom do you take me for?
"Return them to me-for what?" inquired Sir Francis, in amazement.
"What have you named that young article there?"
"Nay, I can't explain all; they did not take me into their confidence.
"What do you mean?" she gasped.
"Your words are not words of truth, but of deceit.
Count them."
He should have less trouble in throwing off the mask.
She spoke so quietly, so apparently without feeling or passion, that Sir Francis was agreeably astonished.
"You told a different tale to me, Sir Francis," was her remark, as she turned her indignant eyes toward him.
"Allow me to return them to you.
"I do not understand what you would imply," she said, drawing her shawl round her with a fresh shiver.
"I don't understand you."
Then he paid a visit to the landlord, and handed him, likewise a year's rent in advance, making the same remark.
"All stratagems are fair in love and war."
All at once-something-leaped from the bough of a tree and alighted before us.
"Don't," cried Cecily hysterically.
"There's the bell!"
"No, it isn't Peg Bowen.
"I shall tell it, too.
I don't care if the joke is as much on myself as any one.
As he did so, clear and sweet, rang out ten bell like chimes.
"Perhaps it is Emily King's ghost," whispered Felix.
"Stay with us, old fellow."
It's SOMETHING that WALKS."
But to be called "a sweet cat!" Oh, Sara, Sara!
Or else Uncle Roger is trying to fool us."
Don't you!"
"Well, here's the key-go and see for yourself," said peter.
"That's what I heard," cried peter.
But what do you think we have been talking of?
She was very much vexed, and meant to make her apology as soon as possible."
Before they parted, however, it was agreed that the projected walk should be taken as soon as possible; and, setting aside the misery of his quitting their box, she was, upon the whole, left one of the happiest creatures in the world.
You.
I have a great regard for him, I assure you: a gentleman like, good sort of fellow as ever lived."
Stout, active-looks as young as his son.
At the bottom of the street, however, she looked back again, and then, not at a window, but issuing from the door, she saw Miss Tilney herself.
Perhaps you did not know I had been there."
If she felt such confidence in my good intentions, and could suppose it to be only a mistake, why should you be so ready to take offence?"
What could they have to say of her?
There are few people much about town that I do not know.
"And what do you think I said?"--lowering his voice-"well done, general, said I; I am quite of your mind."
Yes, by heavens!
At length, however, he did look towards her, and he bowed-but such a bow!
"Oh, Edward!
Who is to dance?"
"Your daughter."
"Do the job.
"When we've turned the house upside down and put the cellar at the top and the attic below, we'll tell you what there is inside, and whether it's francs or sous or half farthings."
"Well, I don't mean that you shall."
"Beginning with my father!"
"Not so close, my good man!" said she.
Thus he came to the bar which Marius had loosened.
Thenardier made a movement towards her.
"Have you the key to the gate, Thenardier?"
So saying, she seated herself on the underpinning of the fence and hummed:--
I shall be hungry this summer, and I shall be cold this winter.
Thenardier said not a word, and seemed ready for whatever the rest pleased.
"This is the place," said one of them.
Two days in succession-this was too much.
He flashed the knife, which he held open in his hand, in the light of the lantern.
"The railing is old," interpolated a fifth, who had the voice of a ventriloquist.
And he added:--
"I am here, little father, because I am here.
The man underwent that shock which the unexpected always brings.
At the corner of the street they halted and exchanged the following enigmatical dialogue in a low tone:--
Eponine, who never took her eyes off of them, saw them retreat by the road by which they had come.
In any case, I have fetched a ball that we'll make him eat."
Tell me about it!
"So you mean to enter this house?"
Go your way, you bore me!
It was, in fact, Eponine, who had addressed Thenardier.
I told Magnon so.
I'm not in.
Go where you please, but don't come here, I forbid it!
All that's bad.
"Rather!" grinned the ventriloquist.
I swear to you that there is nothing in this house."
He redoubled his pace.
He recoiled and stammered:--
He seemed thoughtful.
"Well, go in, then, the rest of you," exclaimed Montparnasse.
Isn't a person allowed to sit on the stones nowadays?
There was a dim nook there, in which Eponine was entirely concealed.
If you approach, I'll bark.
I don't know, let me alone, and be off, I tell you."
Because you have finical poppets of mistresses who hide under the bed when you put on a big voice, forsooth!
Now, get away with you."
Then she continued, as she cast her blood shot, spectre like eyes upon the ruffians in turn:--
"Don't approach!" she cried.
"I have only to cry out, and people will come, and then slap, bang! There are six of you; I represent the whole world."
She rose and began to creep after them along the walls and the houses.
I told you, I'm the dog, and I don't care a straw for you.
I tell you that you shan't enter this house, because it doesn't suit me.
Eponine turned to the five ruffians.
They halted in amazement.
In the first place, if you enter this garden, if you lay a hand on this gate, I'll scream, I'll beat on the door, I'll rouse everybody, I'll have the whole six of you seized, I'll call the police."
But Eponine did not release her hold, and redoubled her caresses.
She advanced a pace nearer the ruffians, she was terrible, she burst out laughing:--
Thenardier resumed in his decided tone:--
She began to laugh in a terrible way:--
She followed them thus as far as the boulevard.
There are six of you, what matters that to me?
It's a shame to miss this, anyway.
Oh, yes, much!
Thenardier tried to disentangle himself from Eponine's arms, and grumbled:--
She was forced to pause; she was seized by a dry cough, her breath came from her weak and narrow chest like the death rattle.
Up to that time, she had contented herself with watching him on his passage along the boulevard without ever seeking to encounter him.
That frightful tongue had become impossible to her since she had known Marius.
These men began to talk in a low voice.
"Why, what's the matter with her?"
"Under Pantin [Paris]."
You are men.
I'll use kicks; it's all the same to me, come on!"
Eponine made a final effort.
The six rascals, speechless and gloomy at being held in check by a girl, retreated beneath the shadow cast by the lantern, and held counsel with furious and humiliated shrugs.
"She's well.
She resumed:--
He bristled up in hideous wise; nothing is so formidable to behold as ferocious beasts who are uneasy; their terrified air evokes terror.
Two women, an old fellow who lodges in the back yard, and curtains that ain't so bad at the windows.
As they went, Montparnasse muttered:--
Then she set her back against the gate, faced the six ruffians who were armed to the teeth, and to whom the night lent the visages of demons, and said in a firm, low voice:--
"Yes, they know you!" ejaculated Thenardier.
There they parted, and she saw these six men plunge into the gloom, where they appeared to melt away.
Is she in love with the dog?
"Friends!
What! Scare?
It was Toussaint, who had stayed up to spread out some linen to dry.
Have you no longer any kind feeling for your father?"
He had the reputation of not sticking at anything, and it was known that he had plundered a police post simply out of bravado.
And my mother?
The ventriloquist, however, finished his grin. She went on:--
Eponine released Montparnasse's hand, which she had grasped again, and said:--
The old cove must be a Jew.
Where is mother?
"Yes."
"Well, no; I won't approach, but don't speak so loud.
So you intend to hinder us in our work, my daughter?
I am the daughter of my father, perhaps.
It was precisely at the point where the railing touched the neighboring wall.
They went away.
The passer by cast a glance around him, saw no one, dared not peer into the black niche, and was greatly alarmed.
"Decamp, my girl, and leave men to their own affairs!"
"So much the better," said the second who had spoken.
She seated herself on the underpinning of the railing, close beside the bar, as though she were guarding it.
"Go to the devil!" cried Thenardier.
He halted, and said gently:--
"Where shall we go to sleep to night?"
Yes, I'm out.
"Bitch!"
And he pushed her aside with the intention of entering.
"Ah, see here, what are you about there?
So Eponine followed him, without his suspecting the fact.
"I wouldn't.
There's nothing to be done here.
Well, I have made inquiries; you will expose yourselves to no purpose, you see.
Let's quit."
He retreated, growling between his teeth:--
"What jade is this?"
You don't frighten me.
"Have you some putty to break the pane with?"
"You bother me," said Eponine.
So you're out?"
Brujon remained silent an instant longer, then he shook his head in various ways, and finally concluded to speak:--
Eponine caught Montparnasse's hand.
"I don't know.
"It won't screech under the saw, and it won't be hard to cut."
"That's good.
I'll stay here with the girl, and if she fails us-"
"But good day, good evening, sheer off! leave us alone!"
"My good friend, mr Montparnasse," said Eponine, "I entreat you, you are a good fellow, don't enter."
"There are lone women," said Guelemer.
She remained thus for more than an hour, without stirring and without breathing, a prey to her thoughts.
"I won't go, so there now," pouted Eponine like a spoiled child; "you send me off, and it's four months since I saw you, and I've hardly had time to kiss you."
She fastened her intent gaze upon Thenardier and said:--
I don't hit a lady."
And he pointed out to Eponine, across the tops of the trees, a light which was wandering about in the mansard roof of the pavilion.
The neighboring street lantern illuminated her profile and her attitude.
Are you crazy?" exclaimed Thenardier, as loudly as one can exclaim and still speak low; "what have you come here to hinder our work for?"
"I'm no longer surprised that he comes here every evening."
It was only on the evening before that she had attempted to address him.
Thenardier stepped nearer.
She saw him displace the bar and slip into the garden.
Marius, at nightfall, was pursuing the same road as on the preceding evening, with the same thoughts of delight in his heart, when he caught sight of Eponine approaching, through the trees of the boulevard.
This is not what you want.
Thenardier replied:--
She shook her head and added:--
She had set her elbow on her knee and her chin in her hand, and she swung her foot with an air of indifference.
It's a long time since I've seen you!
"As you like, but you shall not enter here.
Nothing more resolute and more surprising could be seen.
Brujon, who was somewhat of an oracle, and who had, as the reader knows, "put up the job," had not as yet spoken.
"Burst!"
You've embraced me.
It is remarkable that Eponine did not talk slang.
In the meantime she stared at them with a stern but peaceful air.
"Pardine!
What do you want with us?
What was there that was degrading for the son of Colonel Pontmercy in the combat which was about to begin?
And then if we look at things from a still more lofty point of view, why do we speak of civil war?
Their mass bears witness to apathy. A crowd is easily led as a whole to obedience.
What was the good of living, and why should he live now?
Should he be untrue at once to his love, to country, to his word?
The country wails, that may be, but humanity applauds. But is it true that the country does wail?
Down with the tyrant!
Marius had but a step more to take.
A sort of splendid rectification had just been effected in his mind.
And then he fell to weeping bitterly.
As he meditated thus, dejected but resolute, hesitating in every direction, and, in short, shuddering at what he was about to do, his glance strayed to the interior of the barricade.
Men must be stirred up, pushed on, treated roughly by the very benefit of their deliverance, their eyes must be wounded by the true, light must be hurled at them in terrible handfuls.
Live without Cosette he could not.
All this was ten fathoms distant from him.
He beheld civil war laid open like a gulf before him, and into this he was about to fall.
There is no one who has not noticed it in his own case-the soul,--and therein lies the marvel of its unity complicated with ubiquity, has a strange aptitude for reasoning almost coldly in the most violent extremities, and it often happens that heartbroken passion and profound despair in the very agony of their blackest monologues, treat subjects and discuss theses.
The houses which bordered the lane on the right concealed the rest of the wine shop, the large barricade, and the flag from him.
The question is no longer one of sacred territory,--but of a holy idea.
There is a divine right in Louis the sixteenth., there is because a Bourbon in Louis Philippe; both represent in a certain measure the confiscation of right, and, in order to clear away universal insurrection, they must be combated; it must be done, France being always the one to begin.
Are there not cases where insurrection rises to the dignity of duty?
Multitudes have a tendency to accept the master.
War of the streets?
This monstrous mass must be made to crumble.
Let us see, why should his father be indignant?
France bleeds, but liberty smiles; and in the presence of liberty's smile, France forgets her wound.
should he slip away after having come and peeped into the barricade?
slip away, all in a tremble, saying: "After all, I have had enough of it as it is.
No; no more than Louis the sixteenth.
Why not?
But what was he to do?
The insurgents' sentinel, who was guarding the other end, did not see him.
Should he give to his cowardice the pretext of patriotism?
Both of them are what history is in the habit of calling good kings; but principles are not to be parcelled out, the logic of the true is rectilinear, the peculiarity of truth is that it lacks complaisance; no concessions, then; all encroachments on man should be repressed.
It was the reflection of the torch which was burning in the Corinthe barricade.
This was horrible.
Thus a prey to the conflicting movements of his thoughts, he dropped his head.
Well, the monarchy is a foreigner; oppression is a stranger; the right divine is a stranger.
One would have said that the man who was dead was surveying those who were about to die.
Until that day when the grand human agreement is concluded, war, that at least which is the effort of the future, which is hastening on against the past, which is lagging in the rear, may be necessary. What have we to reproach that war with?
He felt that he was very close to that which he had come in search of, and he walked on tiptoe.
She had gone knowing that; this meant that it pleased her that Marius should die.
The vision of the action into which he felt that he was, perhaps, on the point of entering, appeared to him no more as lamentable, but as superb.
And then, it was clear that she no longer loved him, since she had departed thus without warning, without a word, without a letter, although she knew his address!
There everything was still calmer, more obscure and more motionless than in the neighboring streets.
the one is the defender, the other the liberator.
Below, by the lights of the torch, which was thrust between the paving stones, this head could be vaguely distinguished.
Is there a foreign war?
When the master falls in France, he falls everywhere.
Since she was gone, he must needs die.
The war of the street was suddenly transfigured by some unfathomable inward working of his soul, before the eye of his thought.
He thought of his father's sword, which his grandfather had sold to a second-hand dealer, and which he had so mournfully regretted.
They must be a little thunderstruck themselves at their own well-being; this dazzling awakens them.
This was the situation of Marius' mind.
Had he not given her his word of honor that he would die?
These wars build up peace.
Hence the necessity of tocsins and wars.
Shall we brand every appeal to arms within a city's limits without taking the object into a consideration?
Marius directed his steps towards that red light.
It was the interior of the barricade.
Overhead, at the small window in the third story Marius descried a sort of spectator who appeared to him to be singularly attentive.
All the tumultuous interrogation points of revery recurred to him in throngs, but without troubling him.
There is a widening of the sphere of thought which is peculiar to the vicinity of the grave; it makes one see clearly to be near death.
All at once he raised it.
He entered it.
Then war, whether foreign or civil, is iniquitous; it is called crime. Outside the pale of that holy thing, justice, by what right does one form of man despise another?
Then he shuddered.
War does not become a disgrace, the sword does not become a disgrace, except when it is used for assassinating the right, progress, reason, civilization, truth.
Of whom are you speaking?
Great combatants must rise, must enlighten nations with audacity, and shake up that sad humanity which is covered with gloom by the right divine, Caesarian glory, force, fanaticism, irresponsible power, and absolute majesty; a rabble stupidly occupied in the contemplation, in their twilight splendor, of these sombre triumphs of the night.
An enormous fortress of prejudices, privileges, superstitions, lies, exactions, abuses, violences, iniquities, and darkness still stands erect in this world, with its towers of hatred. It must be cast down.
He left none of them unanswered.
Hence nothing was stirring.
He found himself most opportunely armed, as he had Javert's pistols with him.
The Government understood this as well as the parties; the most insignificant bourgeois felt it.
There the rabble ended and the army began.
Near the fountain of the Arbre Sec, there were "assemblages", motionless and gloomy groups which were to those who went and came as stones in the midst of running water.
Thanks to the broken lanterns, thanks to the closed windows, there all radiance, all life, all sound, all movement ceased. The invisible police of the insurrection were on the watch everywhere, and maintained order, that is to say, night.
BOOK THIRTEENTH.--MARIUS ENTERS THE SHADOW
There circulation ceased.
There was nothing but fright, mourning, stupor in the houses; and in the streets, a sort of sacred horror.
All around this deserted and disquieting labyrinth, in the quarters where the Parisian circulation had not been annihilated, and where a few street lanterns still burned, the aerial observer might have distinguished the metallic gleam of swords and bayonets, the dull rumble of artillery, and the swarming of silent battalions whose ranks were swelling from minute to minute; a formidable girdle which was slowly drawing in and around the insurrection.
He approached, it took on a form.
The necessary tactics of insurrection are to drown small numbers in a vast obscurity, to multiply every combatant by the possibilities which that obscurity contains.
He walked very near the street posts, and guided himself along the walls of the houses.
No curious observer passed that limit.
As it often happens, nature seemed to have fallen into accord with what men were about to do.
he could not have told.
Moreover, on both sides, the fury, the rage, and the determination were equal.
Its whisperings had the hoarse accent of a vibration.
He continued to advance.
In this place which had been marked out for the struggle, the Government and the insurrection, the National Guard, and popular societies, the bourgeois and the uprising, groping their way, were about to come into contact.
There could be descried piles of guns, moving bayonets, and troops bivouacking.
A little beyond the barricade, it seemed to him that he could make out something white in front of him.
These melancholy openings which take place in the gloom before despair, are tempting.
In proportion as he left the Palais Royal behind him, there were fewer lighted windows, the shops were fast shut, no one was chatting on the thresholds, the street grew sombre, and, at the same time, the crowd increased in density.
Marius left the horses behind him.
From that instant forth he encountered nothing more.
He wished to die; the opportunity presented itself; he knocked at the door of the tomb, a hand in the darkness offered him the key.
No one knew, but it was certain and inevitable.
It was an overturned wagon; his foot recognized pools of water, gullies, and paving stones scattered and piled up.
The only possible issue thenceforth was to emerge thence killed or conquerors.
This multitude undulated confusedly in the nocturnal gloom.
For the one party, to advance meant death, and no one dreamed of retreating; for the other, to remain meant death, and no one dreamed of flight.
Marius willed with the will of a man who hopes no more.
After having passed the zone of the crowd, he had passed the limits of the troops; he found himself in something startling.
Although not one of them was walking, a dull trampling was audible in the mire.
The whole of this itinerary resembled a descent of black steps.
Mad with grief, no longer conscious of anything fixed or solid in his brain, incapable of accepting anything thenceforth of fate after those two months passed in the intoxication of youth and love, overwhelmed at once by all the reveries of despair, he had but one desire remaining, to make a speedy end of all.
A situation so extreme, an obscurity so powerful, that the most timid felt themselves seized with resolution, and the most daring with terror.
It was indispensable that all should be ended on the following day, that triumph should rest either here or there, that the insurrection should prove itself a revolution or a skirmish.
How?
No one could be seen to speak in this throng, and yet there arose from it a dull, deep murmur.
Marius thrust aside the bar which had so often allowed him to pass, emerged from the garden, and said: "I will go."
All was over.
At dusk, every window where a candle was burning received a shot.
No more light was to be hoped for, henceforth, except the lightning of guns, no further encounter except the abrupt and rapid apparition of death. Where?
For the passers by now amounted to a crowd.
This shot still betokened life.
The light was extinguished, sometimes the inhabitant was killed.
He took a few steps.
He set out at rapid pace.
The invested quarter was no longer anything more than a monstrous cavern; everything there appeared to be asleep or motionless, and, as we have just seen, any street which one might come to offered nothing but darkness.
Nothing disturbed the harmony of the whole effect. The stars had disappeared, heavy clouds filled the horizon with their melancholy folds.
Some one passed close to him at a run.
The necessity was the same for both.
CHAPTER two-AN OWL'S VIEW OF PARIS
A black sky rested on these dead streets, as though an immense winding sheet were being outspread over this immense tomb.
There the glance fell into an abyss.
Only the solitary and diminishing rows of lanterns could be seen vanishing into the street in the distance.
Entering a street was like entering a cellar.
There the shops were closed, the merchants were chatting in front of their half open doors, people were walking about, the street lanterns were lighted, beginning with the first floor, all the windows were lighted as usual.
It had passed and vanished.
Gold Plated.
El Perfecto Veda Rose Rouge A WONDERFUL BEAUTIFIER
When used as a massage, Sandholm's Lotion is the greatest skin beautifier ever discovered, and produces that velvety softness of the skin which is so much admired.
This outfit will out shave and out last all other makes of safety razors and, in doing so, will afford far greater comfort and satisfaction.
A sponge in every package, so always READY for use.
Price one dollar.
Boxes open with a key.
Goodwin's Chiropody Corn Salve
ABILENA America's Truest and Purest Natural Laxative. One of the most remarkable of all natural phenomena is the FAMOUS WELLS OF ABILENA from which flows a perfect laxative water.
Will not rub off.
The same discovery has now thousands who were threatened with operation and death.
AbilenA comes to you pure-just as it flows from the Famous Wells of AbilenA-harmless as the water you drink-clear, sparkling, vitalizing. It flushes and cleanses the system thoroughly, and in the gentlest way possible.
YOUR FEET as well as any part of your body, should be properly treated and taken care of.
No white dust.
Mares Cathartic Capsules tone the stomach, help the liver and clean the bowels.
Ask your Druggist for illustrated Booklet FREE, showing half tones of many people cured, with their testimonials.
Strong's Arnica Tooth Soap Cleanser and Mouth Wash In One
At your druggist, twenty five cents.
"BULLY SHINE." A waterproof paste polish for all kinds of black shoes and old rubbers.
Leslie Safety Razors AND SPIRAL STROPPER LESLIE STANDARD The Shaving Outfit of the World
There's hope for you.
In liquid form so it can be quickly and easily applied.
AbilenA is America's Only Bottled Natural Cathartic Water.
Ask your Druggist for MIXER'S CANCER and SCROFULA SYRUP.
Polish with a brush or cloth.
Combination for cleansing and polishing ALL kinds of russet or tan boots and shoes.
NOTE.--If your druggist does not have these goods, send price to us.
Delays are dangerous unexpected changes are apt to bring on Coughs and Colds.
"ELITE"
It FEEDS the tissue, REFINES the texture, INSTANTLY beautifies, and PERMANENTLY benefits.
Contains Leslie Safety Razor and Spiral Stropper and six Leslie Blades.
It is famous for giving a perfectly natural tint to the cheeks.
Blacks and polishes ladies' and children's boots and shoes; SHINES WITHOUT RUBBING; always READY for use.
WHAT IS MORE DESIRABLE THAN A CLEAR, HEALTHY SKIN?
Father fortunately discovered the great remedy that cured him.
IT HAS NO EQUAL for
"QUICK WHITE" makes dirty CANVAS shoes clean and white.
LARGEST IN VARIETY
Salt rheum, Eczema, Rash, Tetter (Herps), Scald head, Milk scald, Plant poisoning, Hives, Mosquito bites, Small burns or scratches, Barbers' Itch, Parasitic diseases, Scaly or scabby eruptions of the skin, Itching piles, Acne, Psoriasis, Pimples, Blackheads, Cracked hands and lips, etc
Strong's Arnica Jelly Keeps Your Skin Smooth No need to endure the discomfort of sunburn or winter chapping.
Forty five years ago my father, who was himself a doctor, had a vicious cancer that was eating away his life.
Ask for Whittemore's Shoe Polishes if you want the BEST,
Guaranteed under the Food and Drug Act, june thirtieth nineteen o six.
One trial will convince you of its merits.
Look for our Trade Mark
THE SAD STORY OF MY FATHER'S GREAT SUFFERING FROM CANCER
Eradicates all skin and scalp trouble by absorbing the germ-returns the skin to normal condition.
Blacks, polishes, softens and preserves.
Manufactured only by BLANCHE w MOE, three fourteen West forty second Street ,NEW YORK New York
A perfect antiseptic after shaving.
"GILT EDGE" Oil Polish
In collapsible metal tubes, twenty five cents.
THE OLDEST AND LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF SHOE POLISH IN THE WORLD
FINEST IN QUALITY
Restores color and lustre to all black shoes.
The best physicians in America could do nothing for him.
Give it a Trial.
Rheumatism, Weak Lungs, Asthma, Backache, Lumbago, Strains, Bronchitis, Female Weakness and all other transient aches and pains.
When itching developed, went to the hospital, where I was told I had itching piles.
We want you to accept a large sample bottle with our compliments.
Better than any argument is the Restorative itself-for you to try.
UNSURPASSED for General Debility, Nervous Weakness, Stomach troubles, Kidney affections and General Break Down.
I think it wonderful.
Golden Rule Hair Restorative simply invigorates the roots-waking them up-toning them up-rejuvenating them until they are rendered lively and vigorous as in youth, The obvious result is that the growth of the hair is promoted.
I DE LITE CLEANS DUSTS POLISHES all varnished or waxed woodwork, floors, pianos, furniture, white enamel, automobile bodies with ease and satisfaction.
A spoonful on a dampened cheese cloth wiped over the varnish and polished with a dry cheese cloth will pick up all the dust, remove the grease, smoked or blued spots, cover scratches and restore the original lustre or finish.
Directions come with each box.
Most economical and effective remedy.
I bought and used your Pile Cure and have found it a wonder.
Not so, it is only a run down condition of the roots of the hair-just as the body gets run down.
Get this bottle and try it.
Beware of infringements!
THE OHIO CHEMICAL WORKS toledo ohio.
A broad statement, yet true.
fort wayne indiana
Mailed on receipt of price, fifty cents. Geo.
fifty cents per box.
Until tomorrow before you investigate our method of treating Drug, Liquor and Tobacco addictions with Hill's Chloride of Gold Tablets.
We remove desire of patients we accept for treatment, if directions are followed, and do it without pain or suffering.
Don't Wait
Gout, Neuralgia, Malaria and La Grippe; is analgesic, antipyrectic, an intestinal antiseptic, diaphoretic, diuretic, expectorant, deobstruent, sialagogue, cholagogue, emmenagogue, gouocococidal, anti syphilitic and alterative. Doctor, you may prescribe Saliodin with confidence wherever iodine or salicylate is indicated.
One of the Best External Remedies Known
Blonde
Do it Now
I have been around the world and have used all kinds of salves, but never found anything equal to yours.
F. CARTER. Subscribed and sworn before me this third day of June, nineteen o nine j e POTTER, Notary Public.
Have You Piles? Why Suffer Longer When ROSSMAN'S PILE CURE IS AT HAND
Test It Yourself-FREE
Can be given Secretly without the knowledge of the patient.
(Do not die in house)
Manufactured by OSCAR s RHOADS.
The dr d p Ordway Plasters
If you don't need it yourself, get it for some friend.
We are headquarters for a p w Brand Toilet Paper.
They are especially favored by the ladies to serve at all social functions.
Better than filling the system up with drugs.
Price one dollar
Easy to apply, a pleasant and purifying odor.
Testimonials SENT FREE.
For sale by Druggists, or sent on receipt of one dollar.
Dark Brown no three.
Put up only by
Be sure you get the Hygeia.
Was operated upon for hemorrhoids and was all right for three months.
I have been doctoring for nine years for same and found no relief until I used a box of Rossman's Cure.
Keep a box handy, it saves the doctor bill.
I DE LITE does not contain alcohol, ether, turpentine, benzine, vinegar, common paraffine or coal oil, anyone of which will in time ruin fine varnish.
If the roots are vigorous and healthy, the hair is bound to be natural.
We will deliver anywhere in the city ten thousand sheets and a handsome nickel plated holder for the sum of one dollar
Hair can starve and wither like any plant that gets its life from its roots.
But you should not permit this.
We are only too glad to throw ourselves wholly on the merits of Golden Rule Hair Restorative, so we years ago set aside thousands of dollars to spend on big free Sample bottles.
Once you try them, you will always buy them.
Remember its continued use tends to stop hair from falling by promoting a vigorous growth of healthy hair. Remember that it restores color to the hair.
Yes-that's just it-a real one at last-one that invigorates the roots and promotes the restoration of the hair to its original beauty, luxuriance and color.
A light, soft tissue of the finest quality, made from absolutely clean, pure stock.
Our peanuts are prepared so different from the old way, making them very nutritious and healthy.
The shades obtained by the use of Scheffler's Hair Colorine are natural looking also leaves the hair soft and glossy.
The quick, beneficial results obtained from the use of ROOT JUICE is surprising thousands of people throughout the country. The compound is certainly a remarkable TONIC STOMACHIC and seems to benefit from the very start, all who take it.
NEW KIND SALTED PEANUTS Did you ever try them?
One of them drew a pail of fresh water and by chance brought up a small live fish.
MYTHOLOGY.
CHALLENGE.
On the other hand, if they say "pepper and salt," the quarrel is made doubly certain.
Children collect two or three hundred names of persons, asking each to give a bow with the name.
The boys took the "stump," one quickly cut up the unfortunate little animal and each boy swallowed a bit.
Believed by most schoolboys there at that time.
Blue is the favorite color.
The phrase is sometimes used, although the person giving the "stump" may not himself be able to accomplish the feat.
Children believe it is unlucky to step on the cracks in the flagstones, which are believed to contain poison.
First boy: "Honor bright?" Second boy: "Hope to die." First boy: "Cut your throat?" Second boy draws finger across throat.
Once in Ohio several lads were collected together about a spring.
The stars are holes made in the sky, so that the light of heaven shines through.
Thus in croquet no child (in a town near Boston) would take the red ball, because it was supposed to mean hate.
Stick your thumb through a knothole and say:--
A form fuller than the preceding:--
Certain, true, Black and blue.
A boy who desires to tell an extravagant story without being guilty of a lie would point with his thumb over his left shoulder.
Children avert this catastrophe by exclaiming, "bread and butter," which is a counter charm.
At the age of six or seven years, a child, while going to a spring to draw water, saw a little creature with wings fly from one star to another, leaving behind an arc of light.
The addition of the words "in a horn" justify a falsehood.
SPORT.
PUNISHMENT.
If two persons, while walking, divide so as to pass an obstruction one on one side and one on the other, they will quarrel.
VARIOUS.
Red and yellow, catch a fellow.
Put a mark upon a paper for every bow you get, and when you have one hundred bury the paper and wish.
FRIENDSHIP.
Boys believe that they can prevent the stitch in the side which is liable to be induced by running, by means of holding a pebble under the tongue.
To "stump" another boy to do a thing is considered as putting a certain obligation on him to perform the action indicated.
Old Gran'f'ther Graybeard, without tooths or tongue, If you'll give me a little finger I'll give you a thumb. Thumb'll go away and little finger'll come.
In making a false statement, it was proper to say "over the left." This was often uttered in such manner that the person addressed should not perceive the qualification.
Certain, true, Black and blue, Lay me down and cut me in two.
FORTUNE.
The ideas of children about the significance of color are mixed.
twenty three.
sixteen.
Jan Yu said, Since numbers are here, what next is needed?
ten.
nineteen.
Household business, said the Master.
seven.
What numbers!
five.
And how are the crown servants of to day?
Teaching, said the Master.
twenty eight.
fifteen.
What!
eight.
twenty six.
The Duke of She asked, What is kingcraft?
There is uprightness in this.
twenty nine.
He asked to be taught gardening.
twenty four.
twenty.
Why put them right?
eighteen.
twenty one.
fourteen.
nine.
thirteen.
eleven.
thirty.
The weights and measures men! said the Master.
six.
The Master said, Neglect of the omens, that is all.
twenty seven.
The Master said, The man of upright life is obeyed before he speaks; commands even go unheeded when the life is crooked.
Wealth, said the Master.
twenty five.
Are they worth reckoning?
I think it was about a fortnight after that conversation in which my father had expressed his opinion, and given me the mysterious charge about the old oak cabinet in his library, as already detailed, that I was one night sitting at the great drawing room window, lost in the melancholy reveries of night, and in admiration of the moonlighted scene.
Two or three of them crossed in the course of my early life, like magic lantern figures, the disk of my very circumscribed observation.
'Home, I mean, dear.
'Come, dear, let us go.'
He says your mamma is not there.'
So I can tell you now as I did then; and as we are both, I hope, walking on to the same place just as we did to the trees and cottage.
The air was still.
We cannot walk to the place I have described.
'And where is the gate of death?' I asked in a sort of whisper, as we walked together, holding his hand, and looking stealthily.
He led me into the garden-the Dutch garden, we used to call it-with a balustrade, and statues at the farther front, laid out in a carpet pattern of brilliantly coloured flowers.
As my eyes rested on those, to me, funereal but glorious woods, which formed the background of the picture, my thoughts recurred to my father's mysterious intimations and the image of the approaching visitor; and the thought of the unknown journey saddened me.
It is enough for me to know that their founder either saw or fancied he saw amazing visions, which, so far from superseding, confirmed and interpreted the language of the Bible; and as dear papa accepted their ideas, I am happy in thinking that they did not conflict with the supreme authority of holy writ.
I see ever so much.
Thus entertained, though a little awfully, I accompanied the dark mysterious little 'whipper snapper' through the woodland glades.
Where is she?
He smiled sadly and said-
'She is taken away!' I cried, starting up, and with streaming eyes, gazing on the building which, though I stamped my feet in my distraction, I was afraid to approach.
Come, dear; let us be going.'
'Sit down beside me, my child,' said the grave man with the black eyes, very kindly and gently.
The silvery vapour hung serenely on the far horizon, and the frosty stars blinked brightly.
Fancies and regrets float mistily in the dream, and the scene affects us with a strange mixture of memory and anticipation, like some sweet old air heard in the distance.
CHAPTER three
We can only reach it through the gate of death, to which we are all tending, young and old, with sure steps.'
Where have they brought her to?'
There was a stone bench some ten steps away from the tomb.
He leaned his elbow on his knee, and his forehead on his hand, which shaded his downcast eyes.
When my dear mamma died I was not nine years old; and I remember, two days before the funeral, there came to Knowl, where she died, a thin little man, with large black eyes, and a very grave, dark face.
'Yes, a stone wall with pillars, too high for either you or me to see over. But----'
All outside was and is darkness.
He was shut up a good deal with my dear father, who was in deep affliction; and mrs Rusk used to say, 'It is rather odd to see him praying with that little scarecrow from London, and good mr Clay ready at call, in the village; much good that little black whipper snapper will do him!'
'Now, what do you see there?' he asked, pointing horizontally with his stick towards the centre of the opposite structure.
I remember feeling a sort of awe of this little dark man; but I was not afraid of him, for he was gentle, though sad-and seemed kind.
In that attitude he described to me a beautiful landscape, radiant with a wondrous light, in which, rejoicing, my mother moved along an airy path, ascending among mountains of fantastic height, and peaks, melting in celestial colouring into the air, and peopled with human beings translated into the same image, beauty, and splendour.
Of these Swedenborgians, indeed, I know no more than I might learn from good mrs Rusk's very inaccurate talk.
At the sight the fountains of my grief reopened, and I cried bitterly, repeating, 'Oh! mamma, mamma, little mamma!' and so went on weeping and calling wildly on the deaf and the silent.
The way was in deep shadow, for the sun was near the horizon; but suddenly we turned to the left, and there we stood in rich sunlight, among the many objects he had described.
'Come away, Madame,' I said, growing frightened, and feeling that if I were once, by any accident, to give way to the panic that was gathering round me, I should instantaneously lose all control of myself.
There had been no common skirmish on this occasion, but a pitched battle.
'My faith, curious reason; you say because poor mamma is buried there you will not approach!
She was transformed into a great gaping reptile.
Perhaps in their relations to men they are generally more trustworthy-perhaps woman's is the juster, and the other an appointed illusion.
The air was sweet-the landscape charming-I, so good-everything so beautiful! Where should we go?
Let us talk of something else.'
'Yes, yes! let me go,' I shrieked.
She produced a document in the form of a note.
'You've hurt me very much-you have broken my finger,' I sobbed.
'But that doctor is a doctor in theology, I fancy.
At that moment the door of my father's study opened, and mrs Rusk, with her dark energetic face very much flushed, stepped out in high excitement.
'And for what?'
She sat down on the little bank opposite, in her most languid pose-her head leaned upon the tips of her fingers.
She would not answer my questions, and affected to be very lofty and offended.
Madame courtesied with a great smirk, that was full of intangible hate and insult.
And Madame rolled her eyes awfully, as if she expected to see something unearthly, and, indeed, looked very like it herself.
But no, you are not afraid.
Madame was cool, frank, and fluent.
With which words she seized that joint, and laughing spitefully, she twisted it suddenly back.
Her eyes were turned in the direction of the stairs, from which only she apprehended surprise.
'No, on the contrary, sit here by me.
'Will you tell?'
So I despise.
No, no; you know everything.
'Why?' said I, flushing and growing pale again.
'Yes, a Doctor Bryerly, who remained a few days.
You don't know, Madame, how you hurt me. Let us speak of something else.'
I had made a resolution to speak as little as possible to Madame, I was so incensed at the treachery I had witnessed; but such resolutions do not last long with very young people, and by the time we had reached the skirts of the wood we were talking pretty much as usual.
Madame had made a sort of pet of Anne Wixted, an underchambermaid, and attached her to her interest economically by persuading me to make her presents of some old dresses and other things.
And so I yielded, though still reluctant.
How dark is this place!
Two little pieces of by play in which I detected her confirmed my unpleasant suspicion.
She was devouring all that was passing there. I drew back into the shadow with a kind of disgust and horror.
Madame laughed an ugly laugh, and said-
'I know nothing of papa's will.
'But, Madame, I really know nothing of it.
We regard them first for the oracle of the dead, and find them after only the folly of the living.
There was a grass grown road, which we easily reached, leading to the sombre building, and we soon arrived before it.
What cross girl!
I felt quite afraid of Madame, and confounded at the suddenness of all this.
Oh, yes-he is old man, and so uncertain life is.
Do, pray.'
Come, tell me all about-it is for your advantage, you know.
'No-I think not.'
Doctor Somebody presented his compliments to Madame de la Rougierre, and ordered her a table spoonful of brandy and some drops of laudanum whenever the pain of stomach returned.
The brandy was purely medicinal.
'Better your own brandy, if drink you must!' exclaimed mrs Rusk.
Upon this, mrs Rusk impounded the flask; and, with Anne beside her, rather precipitately appeared before 'the Master.' He heard and summoned Madame.
I screamed while she continued to laugh.
This did not last very long, however, and she soon resumed her wonted ways. And she returned to the question of the will, but not so directly, and with more art.
'You may come to the store room now, or the butler can take it.'
I am not afraid of the dead people, nor of the ghosts.
How could it concern her?
'Poor mamma is buried there.'
And off whisked mrs Rusk for the back staircase.
I treated her as if she had human sympathies, in the hope that they might be generated somehow.
I felt that I could have thrown something at her; but a kind of fear made me recede again toward my room. Indignation, however, quickly returned, and I came back, treading briskly as I did so.
I assented.
Madame was in high spirits.
What is in his will, and when he wrote?'
'Very-the kindest darling.
Let us come-even a little part of the way.'
This confidential talking with Madame, strange to say, implied no confidence; it resulted from fear-it was deprecatory.
How high and thick are the trees all round! and nobody comes near.'
She did not release it immediately however, but continued her torture and discordant laughter.
I can't say whether there is a will or not.
But it would not do: she saw that I had detected her, and she laughed aloud.
'And what then is his disease?'
'There is no need of haste, Madame; it is quite time enough when his health begins to fail.'
'Come away, Madame! you are trying to frighten me,' I said, in the childish anger which accompanies fear.
Madame, I suppose, had heard me, for she was half-way down the stairs.
'I am fatigue-maybe you will read it aloud to me slowly and solemnly, my dearest Maud?'
We shall have so pleasant walk.'
What do you cry for, little fool?'
'Yes, and really, Austin, it is quite clear you ought to marry; you want some one to take this girl out, and look after her, and who's to do it? She's a dowdy-don't you see?
Cousin Monica set down her two little vials on the table, and, stooping again over the bed, began very gently with her fingers to lift the coverlet that covered her face.
Madame uttered a slumbering moan, and turned more upon her face, clasping the coverlet faster about her.
That, then, accounted for the rumble and smack of balls which I had heard as I passed the door.
Lady Knollys tapped at the door, saying-'we'll come in, please, and see you.
So she lighted her candle in the lobby, and with a light and agile step she scaled the stairs, I following; and having found the remedies, we approached Madame's room together.
'Very thoughtful of you, Monica!' said my father.
I think, while we were still at the end of the gallery, Madame heard and divined our approach, for her door suddenly shut, and there was a fumbling at the handle.
'Ill! is she?
She is my governess-a finishing governess, mrs Rusk says.'
Poor thing!
I met mrs Rusk bustling along the passage with a housemaid.
Good mrs Rusk and Mary Quince, in their several ways, used to enhance, by occasional anecdotes and frequent reflections, the terrors of such an intrusion.
'In her room, but not in bed.'
She stuffed a book hastily between her dress and the chair, and received me in a state of langour which, had it not been for mrs Rusk's comfortable assurances, would have frightened me.
Her last husband, the Russian merchant, left her everything.
'I hope you are better, Madame,' I said, approaching.
She shook her head languidly, her elbow resting on the chair, and three finger tips supporting her forehead, and then she made a little sigh, looking down from the corners of her eyes, in an interesting dejection.
It was a long way to Madame's room.
'Yes, you may, but not for myself, Austin-I'm not worthy.
'I-I really don't know; I rather think not.
And Madame shed some tears, which always came at call, and with her hand pressed to her ear, said very faintly,
Do you remember little Kitty Weadon that I wanted you to marry eight and twenty years ago, or more, with a hundred and twenty thousand pounds?
'Quite well, I believe,' answered the housekeeper, drily.
But it was impossible long to be vexed with Cousin Monica.
I there fore said with a kind of courage which sometimes helped me suddenly-
'You were always a match maker, Monica,' said my father, stopping, and putting his hand kindly on hers.
Madame was sitting, or rather reclining, in a low arm chair, when I entered the room, close to the fire, as was her wont, her feet extended near to the bars, and a little coffee equipage beside her.
In fact, curiosity has nothing on earth to do with it.
CHAPTER ten
'But she is ill,' I answered, and all this time I was ready to cry for vexation, thinking of my dress, which must be very absurd to elicit so much unaffected laughter from my experienced relative, and I was only longing to get away and hide myself before that handsome Captain returned.
She eat enough for two to day.
She has not a human relation, and she is in the best set.'
I could not-quite the reverse, indeed. Still I was uncomfortable and feverish-girls of my then age will easily conceive how miserable, under similar circumstances, such a misgiving would make them.
'A cold-feverish and rheumatic, she says.'
And she winced and moaned, with her eyes closed and her hand pressed to the organ affected.
'I should so like to see her, my dear.
You must not.
And she tapped the corner of her forehead, with a look so sly and comical, that I think I should have laughed, if the sentiment had not been so awfully irreverent.
She was over acting; her transitions were too violent, and beside she forgot that I knew how well she could speak English, and must perceive that she was heightening the interest of her helplessness by that pretty tessellation of foreign idiom.
'I'm glad I was not the first,' said my father.
'Very well, dear.'
So my father, with a kind look at her, and a very tender one on me, went silently to the library, as he often did about that hour.
I should so like to talk to her a little.'
Did not she engage to make your dresses?'
Nothing I dreaded more than a step mother.
We have come to relieve your ear. Pray let me see it.
There was no answer; so she opened the door, and we both entered.
But the bolt was out of order.
As I went along the passage, I was thinking whether my dress could be so very ridiculous as my old cousin thought it, and trying in vain to recollect any evidence of a similar contemptuous estimate on the part of that beautiful and garrulous dandy.
'But it won't do.
what's the matter?'
'And your cold, is it better?'
Well, dear, I think I can cure that in five minutes.
I suppose they did not wish a revolution and all its consequences at Knowl, and thought it no harm to excite my vigilance.
'You know, my dear, your father is an oddity,' she said.
Cracky, my dear, cracky-decidedly cracky!'
With this Matthew's companion stopped talking, partly because she was out of breath and partly because they had reached the buggy.
I always like the rumble part of it.
Oh, mr Cuthbert!!
I wasn't a bit sick coming over in the boat.
Other people may call that place the Avenue, but I shall always call it the White Way of Delight. Have we really only another mile to go before we get home?
"But there was a passenger dropped off for you-a little girl.
"Now you see why I can't be perfectly happy.
But why do other people call it Barry's pond?"
Women were bad enough in all conscience, but little girls were worse.
"Well now, I dunno," said matthew.
In fact, he had looked at twenty very much as he looked at sixty, lacking a little of the grayness.
She said she never saw the beat of me for prowling about.
"Oh, I'm so glad.
"That's Barry's pond," said matthew.
"No, she didn't-really she didn't.
They were good, you know-the asylum people.
Her face was small, white and thin, also much freckled; her mouth was large and so were her eyes, which looked green in some lights and moods and gray in others.
"I'm very glad to see you.
All she said might just as well have been about most of those other places.
"Oh, I can carry it," the child responded cheerfully.
We've got to drive a long piece, haven't we?
Have you ever imagined what it must feel like to be divinely beautiful?"
I hadn't any real idea what it looked like.
"Well, whatever it was it must have been something nice because she was divinely beautiful.
They had simply rounded a curve in the road and found themselves in the "Avenue."
But it isn't-it's firmly fastened at one end.
I asked her all about it.
When we got on the train I felt as if everybody must be looking at me and pitying me.
"Well now, I just can't recollect that I ever had."
So I shut my eyes.
Orchard Slope's the name of his place.
Maybe they were out of boys of the brand you wanted."
And I've never had a pretty dress in my life that I can remember-but of course it's all the more to look forward to, isn't it?
Can you tell me?"
I can't feel exactly perfectly happy because-well, what color would you call this?"
I never could find out.
"I suppose you are mr matthew Cuthbert of Green Gables?" she said in a peculiarly clear, sweet voice.
matthew Cuthbert is surprised
"Fancy.
"That's it, isn't it?" she said, pointing.
"Well, that is one of the things to find out sometime.
And what DOES make the roads red?"
Something still pleasanter may come after, but you can never be sure.
Which would you rather be if you had the choice-divinely beautiful or dazzlingly clever or angelically good?"
It just makes me feel glad to be alive-it's such an interesting world.
But you can't where you are.
"It isn't heavy. I've got all my worldly goods in it, but it isn't heavy.
Because, you see, if the bridge DID crumple up I'd want to SEE it crumple.
I don't mind."
Did you ever have an ache like that, mr Cuthbert?"
And then I can imagine that I'm dressed gorgeously.
"Well now, I'm afraid I can't," said matthew, who was getting a little dizzy.
I'm sure I'll guess right."
But I reckon mrs Spencer described it so's you could tell."
Oh, mr Cuthbert!!!"
mrs Spencer says-oh, mr Cuthbert!
"It's a boy I've come for.
But am I talking too much?
Do you think it can?
Now I'll look back.
I can STOP when I make up my mind to it, although it's difficult."
But I'm glad to think of getting home.
I never expected I would, though.
Would you rather I didn't talk?
She said I must have asked her a thousand already.
It's certain I'll never be angelically good.
"Is it a fight?" asked Phil Adams, who saw by our freshness that we had not yet got to work.
"Silence!" said mr Grimshaw, sharply.
Bailey, come here.
"Shouldn't wonder."
"Then the thing must go on," said Adams, with dignity.
"Ready!"
"Cool is the word," said Adams, as he bound a handkerchief round my head, and carefully tucked away the long straggling locks that offered a tempting advantage to the enemy.
Should you never have to use it in earnest there's no exercise in the world so good for the temper, and for the muscles of the back and legs.
Seth Rodgers, on the part of his friend, proved that I had struck the first blow.
"Every boy in this school knows that it is against the rules to fight.
The tears flew to my eyes, but they were not the tears of defeat; they were merely the involuntary tribute which nature paid to the departed tresses.
At the close of the afternoon session it happened that Binny Wallace and myself, having got swamped in our Latin exercise, were detained in school for the purpose of refreshing our memories with a page of mr Andrews's perplexing irregular verbs.
Captain Nutter, as the recognized professional warrior of our family, could not consistently take me to task for fighting Conway; nor was he disposed to do so; for the Captain was well aware of the long continued provocation I had endured.
I remember that Binny Wallace wanted to give me his silver pencil case.
Conway loses his recess for a month, and Bailey has a page added to his Latin lessons for the next four recitations.
If one boy maltreats another, within school bounds, or within school hours, that is a matter for me to settle.
Conway had an accomplishment peculiarly his own-that of throwing his thumbs out of joint at will.
We clasped hands in the tamest manner imaginable, and Conway mumbled, "I'm sorry I fought with you."
We fully expected an outbreak from him at recess; but the intermission passed off tranquilly, somewhat to our disappointment.
And don't give in when you can't! see!
"Rodgers, as I understand it, is your second, Conway?
A good wash at the pump, and a cold key applied to my eye, refreshed me amazingly.
He had, as we suspected, witnessed the closing scene of the fight from the school room window, and the next morning, after prayers, I was not wholly unprepared when Master Conway and myself were called up to the desk for examination.
Miss Abigail's sanitary stores, including a bottle of opodeldoc, were never called into requisition.
It was a custom with the larger pupils to return to the playground after school, and play baseball until sundown.
Look at us as long as you may; for this is all you shall see of the combat. According to my thinking, the hospital teaches a better lesson than the battle field.
Not one of you will be the worse, but very much the better, for learning to box well.
That was bad for me.
He then loosened my gallowses (braces), and buckled them tightly above my hips.
"I think you are," I replied, drily, "and I'm sorry I had to thrash you."
I now request Bailey and Conway to shake hands in the presence of the school, and acknowledge their regret at what has occurred."
Bad for Conway.
He knew we were watching him, and made sundry mouths and scowled in the most threatening way over his sums.
When the time comes, if ever it should, that you have to say 'Yes' or 'No' to a challenge to fight, say 'No' if you can-only take care you make it plain to yourself why you say 'no' It's a proof of the highest courage, if done from true Christian motives.
I disapprove of tale bearing, I never encourage it in the slightest degree; but when one pupil systematically persecutes a schoolmate, it is the duty of some head boy to inform me.
As I went along, my cap cocked on one side to keep the chilly air from my eye, I felt that I was not only following my nose, but following it so closely, that I was in some danger of treading on it.
Behold us once more face to face, like David and the Philistine.
And if you do fight, fight it out; and don't give in while you can stand and see."
What's the row about?"
Convinced of my error, I accepted his congratulations, with those of the other boys, blandly and blindly.
For I could stand very little, and see not at all (having pommelled the school pump for the last twenty seconds), when Conway retired from the field.
He reached forward one of his long arms-he had arms like a windmill, that boy-and, grasping me by the hair, tore out quite a respectable handful.
This drew out the story of Conway's harsh treatment of the smaller boys. As Binny related the wrongs of his playfellows, saying very little of his own grievances, I noticed that mr Grimshaw's hand, unknown to himself perhaps, rested lightly from time to time on Wallace's sunny hair.
"As for fighting, keep out of it, if you can, by all means.
My left cheek, also, was puffed out like a dumpling.
I disapprove of boys' fighting; it is unnecessary and unchristian.
"If you please, sir," said Binny Wallace, holding up his hand for permission to speak, "Bailey didn't fight on his own account; he fought on my account, and, if you please, sir, I am the boy to be blamed, for I was the cause of the trouble."
It was early candle light when we reached the house.
You'll get no description of it from me, simply because I think it would prove very poor reading, and not because I consider my revolt against Conway's tyranny unjustifiable.
Miss Abigail, opening the front door, started back at my hilarious appearance.
I will tell you about my black eye, and my swollen lip, if you will; but not a word of the fight.
"Well?"
"Learn to box, then, as you learn to play cricket and football.
Conway also threw himself into a defensive attitude, and there we were, glaring at each other motionless, neither of us disposed to risk an attack, but both on the alert to resist one.
The gentle soul had stood throughout the contest with his face turned to the fence, suffering untold agony.
"Well, it can't be helped now," I reflected.
In a second my little jacket lay on the ground, and I stood on guard, resting lightly on my right leg and keeping my eye fixed steadily on Conway's-in all of which I was faithfully following the instructions of Phil Adams, whose father subscribed to a sporting journal.
I tried to smile upon her sweetly, but the smile, rippling over my swollen cheek, and dying away like a spent wave on my nose, produced an expression of which Miss Abigail declared she had never seen the like excepting on the face of a Chinese idol.
"--As the monkey said when he fell out of the cocoanut tree," added Charley Marden, trying to make me laugh.
If there is any fighting to be done, I am the person to be consulted.
Sometimes while absorbed in study, or on becoming nervous at recitation, he performed the feat unconsciously. Throughout this entire morning his thumbs were observed to be in a chronic state of dislocation, indicating great mental agitation on the part of the owner.
"Ah, you rascal!" cried the old gentleman, after hearing my story.
"Just like me when I was young-always in one kind of trouble or another.
I am glad that I faced Conway, and asked no favors, and got rid of him forever.
"O, by George!" I cried, reddening at the insult.
The town authorities had prohibited ball playing on the Square, and, there being no other available place, the boys fell back perforce on the school yard.
No pupil has a right to take the law into his own hands.
"Then he must have seen all the row."
"Yes, it's a fight," I answered, "unless Conway will ask Wallace's pardon, promise never to hector me in future-and put back my hair!"
In the present instance, I consider every large boy in this school at fault, but as the offence is one of omission rather than commission, my punishment must rest only on the two boys convicted of misdemeanor.
This last condition was rather a staggerer.
I am sure my apology was a very good one.
Conway, with a piece of court plaster in the shape of a Maltese cross on his right cheek, and I with the silk patch over my left eye, caused a general titter through the room.
I followed shortly after, and, on stepping into the playground, saw my little friend plastered, as it were, up against the fence, and Conway standing in front of him ready to deliver a blow on the upturned, unprotected face, whose gentleness would have stayed any arm but a coward's.
Here's young Bailey!"
Of course, so great a breach of discipline was not to be passed over by mr Grimshaw.
But don't say 'No' because you fear a licking and say or think it's because you fear God, for that's neither Christian nor honest.
I couldn't help saying to myself, "If this is victory, how about that other fellow?"
"No, I wasn't," interrupted Conway; "but I was going to because he knows who put Meeks's mortar over our door.
Seth Rodgers, with both hands in his pockets, was leaning against the pump lazily enjoying the sport; but on seeing me sweep across the yard, whirling my strap of books in the air like a sling, he called out lustily, "Lay low, Conway!
I never had any more trouble with Conway.
"You can go to your seats," said mr Grimshaw, turning his face aside to hide a smile.
Escorted by two or three of the schoolfellows, I walked home through the pleasant autumn twilight, battered but triumphant.
The occasion may come round, when a decent proficiency in one or the rest of these accomplishments will be of service to you.
Conway turned just in time to catch on his shoulder the blow intended for his head.
I might have shielded myself by appealing to mr Grimshaw; but no boy in the Temple Grammar School could do that without losing caste. Whether this was just or not doesn't matter a pin, since it was so-a traditionary law of the place.
I am glad that Phil Adams taught me to box, and I say to all youngsters: Learn to box, to ride, to pull an oar, and to swim.
I should have lacked the spirit of a hen if I had not resented it finally.
Chapter Ten-I Fight Conway
"They'll be handy to have in the house," says Miss Abigail, grimly.
"Tom," said Harry Blake, hesitating.
"Is your man ready?" asked Phil Adams, addressing Rodgers.
I seemed to have nose enough for the whole party.
"No was he, though?"
Conway and I approached each other slowly and cautiously, as if we were bent upon another hostile collision.
Conway regarded these business like preparations with evident misgiving, for he called Rodgers to his side, and had himself arrayed in a similar manner, though his hair was cropped so close that you couldn't have taken hold of it with a pair of tweezers.
It's quite right and justifiable, if done from a simple aversion to physical pain and danger.
As the reader is already familiar with the leading points in the case of Bailey versus Conway, I shall not report the trial further than to say that Adams, Marden, and several other pupils testified to the fact that Conway had imposed on me ever since my first day at the Temple School. Their evidence also went to show that Conway was a quarrelsome character generally.
"I am sure of it."
There was one person, however, who cherished a strong suspicion that the Centipedes had had a hand in the business; and that person was Conway. His red hair seemed to change to a livelier red, and his sallow cheeks to a deeper sallow, as we glanced at him stealthily over the tops of our slates the next day in school.
Just at this crisis a dozen or so of the Templars entered the gate, and, seeing at a glance the belligerent status of Conway and myself, dropped bat and ball, and rushed to the spot where we stood.
I believe it runs in the family."
It spread like wildfire over the town, and, though the mortar and the placard were speedily removed, our triumph was complete.
Before being led to the Grotto of Enchantment-such was the modest title given to the loft over my friend's wood house-my hands were securely pinioned, and my eyes covered with a thick silk handkerchief. At the head of the stairs I was told in an unrecognizable, husky voice, that it was not yet too late to retreat if I felt myself physically too weak to undergo the necessary tortures.
This concluded the ceremony.
I have said that the society had no special object.
It was those wicked soldiers at the fort!
Chapter Nine-I Become an r m c
With a merry shout the boys threw off their masks, and I was declared a regularly installed member of the r m c
We disliked the widow not so much for her sentimentality as for being the mother of Bill Conway; we disliked mr Meeks, not because he was insipid, like his own syrups, but because the widow loved him.
The unknown voice then directed me to take ten steps forward and stop at the word halt.
A second pistol shot was heard, the something I stood on sunk with a crash beneath my feet and I fell two miles, as nearly as I could compute it. At the same instant the handkerchief was whisked from my eyes, and I found myself standing in an empty hogshead surrounded by twelve masked figures fantastically dressed.
The initiation ceremony took place in Fred Langdon's barn, where I was submitted to a series of trials not calculated to soothe the nerves of a timorous boy.
This was an honor to which I had long aspired, but, being a new boy, I was not admitted to the fraternity until my character had fully developed itself.
Indeed, her attentions to mr Meeks, whose mother she might have been, were of a nature not to be misunderstood, and were not misunderstood by anyone but mr Meeks himself.
The distraction which prevailed in the classes the week preceding the Fourth had subsided, and nothing remained to indicate the recent festivities, excepting a noticeable want of eyebrows on the part of Pepper Whitcomb and myself.
In August we had two weeks' vacation.
I have neglected to say that my movements were accompanied by dismal groans from different parts of the grotto.
I afterwards had a good deal of sport out of the club, for these initiations, as you may imagine, were sometimes very comical spectacles, especially when the aspirant for centipedal honors happened to be of a timid disposition.
"Stricken mortal," said a second husky voice, more husky, if possible, than the first, "if you had advanced another inch, you would have disappeared down an abyss three thousand feet deep!"
Whenever a member had reasons for thinking that another member would be unable to attend, he called a meeting.
It was a very select society, the object of which I never fathomed, though I was an active member of the body during the remainder of my residence at Rivermouth, and at one time held the onerous position of f c, First Centipede.
The whole community was on the broad grin, and our participation in the affair seemingly unsuspected.
Wanted, a Sempstress!
A prick from some two pronged instrument, evidently a pitchfork, gently checked my retreat.
The widow carried on a dress making establishment at her residence on the corner opposite Meeks's drug store, and kept a wary eye on all the young ladies from Miss Dorothy Gibbs's Female Institute who patronized the shop for soda water, acid drops, and slate pencils.
We were indebted for our arrest to Master Conway, who had slyly dropped a hint, within the hearing of Selectman Mudge, to the effect that "young Bailey and his five cronies could tell something about them signs." When he was called upon to make good his assertion, he was considerably more terrified than the Centipedes, though they were ready to sink into their shoes.
Other boys had passed through the ordeal and lived, why should not I?
I was then conducted to the brink of several other precipices, and ordered to step over many dangerous chasms, where the result would have been instant death if I had committed the least mistake.
It was also well known that the Widow Conway had not buried her heart with the late lamented.
I replied that I was not too weak, in a tone which I intended to be resolute, but which, in spite of me, seemed to come from the pit of my stomach.
As to her shyness, that was not so clear.
It was about this time that I became a member of the Rivermouth Centipedes, a secret society composed of twelve of the Temple Grammar School boys.
By these simple and ingenious measures we kept our treasury in a flourishing condition, sometimes having on hand as much as a dollar and a quarter.
There was a certain slim, mild apothecary in the town, by the name of Meeks.
One of our subsequent devices-a humble invention of my own-was to request the blindfolded candidate to put out his tongue, whereupon the First Centipede would say, in a low tone, as if not intended for the ear of the victim, "Diabolus, fetch me the red hot iron!" The expedition with which that tongue would disappear was simply ridiculous.
Bill Conway we hated for himself.
Here I encountered five other pallid culprits, who had been fished out of divers coal bins, garrets, and chicken coops, to answer the demands of the outraged laws. (Charley Marden had hidden himself in a pile of gravel behind his father's house, and looked like a recently exhumed mummy.)
"It is well!" said the husky voice.
Any member had a right to call a meeting.
For instance, immediately on learning the death of Harry Blake's great grandfather, I issued a call.
At our next meeting it was unanimously resolved that Conway's animosity should not be quietly submitted to.
Each of the elect wore a copper cent (some occult association being established between a cent apiece and a centipedes suspended by a string round his neck).
The trick, as was afterwards proved, had been played by a party of soldiers stationed at the fort in the harbor.
People who went trustfully to sleep in Currant Square opened their eyes in Honeysuckle Terrace. Jones's Avenue at the north end had suddenly become Walnut Street, and Peanut Street was nowhere to be found.
I scarcely need say that there were no vestiges to be seen of the fearful gulfs over which I had passed so cautiously.
It is true, there was a tacit understanding among us that the Centipedes were to stand by one another on all occasions, though I don't remember that they did; but further than this we had no purpose, unless it was to accomplish as a body the same amount of mischief which we were sure to do as individuals.
I took ten steps, and halted.
I did not feel so sure about that; but, having made up my mind to be a Centipede, a Centipede I was bound to be.
Having tearfully disclaimed to my grandfather all knowledge of the transaction, I disappeared from the family circle, and was not apprehended until late in the afternoon, when the Captain dragged me ignominiously from the haymow and conducted me, more dead than alive, to the office of justice Clapham.
In the afternoon the widow was usually seen seated, smartly dressed, at her window upstairs, casting destructive glances across the street-the artificial roses in her cap and her whole languishing manner saying as plainly as a label on a prescription, "To be Taken Immediately!" But mr Meeks didn't take.
In the course of ten days I recovered sufficiently from my injuries to attend school, where, for a little while, I was looked upon as a hero, on account of having been blown up.
The naughty cleverness of the joke (which I should be sorry to defend) was recognized at once.
He had sought to inform against us in the stagecoach business; he had volunteered to carry Pettingil's "little bill" for twenty four icecreams to Charley Marden's father; and now he had caused us to be arraigned before justice Clapham on a charge equally groundless and painful.
It was generally given out that mr Meeks had a vague desire to get married, but, being a shy and timorous youth, lacked the moral courage to do so.
Late one dark Saturday night in September we carried our plan into effect.
As soon as I ascertained the existence of a boys' club, of course I was ready to die to join it.
Finally, I was led up a steep plank to what appeared to me an incalculable height.
After much noisy discussion, a plan of retaliation was agreed upon.
I naturally shrunk back at this friendly piece of information.
What don't we make a hero of?
Each boy who failed to report himself was fined one cent.
"I thought, perhaps," said Priscilla, quietly, "that a message from you would gratify him, if you had one to send."
I think I was wondering most whether you would be as faithful as Pamela."
It was hard to resist Broome street, knowing that there must be news to be heard there, and so she gradually fell into the habit of paying visits, more to Miss Elizabeth Gower than to her niece.
She talked to her oftener, and seemed to listen while she talked, even though she was busy at the time.
"I have been thinking, Theo," she said, "that we might take a run over the Channel ourselves.
"I was not thinking of that," said Priscilla.
CHAPTER five
To night I shall answer him.
She gave vent to no further exclamations. She would almost have been willing to give up the pleasure of the journey after that.
I remember hearing mr Oglethorpe say once you would be."
"I had a letter from mr Oglethorpe yesterday," Priscilla said, at last. "He is in Vienna now; he asked if you were well.
The two spent hours together, sometimes, in the tiny parlor, stumbling over Berlin wool difficulties, and now and then wandering to and fro, conversationally, from Priscilla to the octagon stitch, and from the octagon stitch to Denis.
Well, I think I have made up my mind about it.
Priscilla had taken up her muff, and was stroking the white fur, her eyes downcast upon her hand as it moved to and fro, the ring upon its forefinger shining in the gaslight.
Theo answered in the affirmative again.
From that time she fancied that Priscilla Gower liked her better than she had done before; at any rate, she took more notice of her, though she was never effusive, of course.
"He was your sister's lover, was he not?" she said, with an abrupt interest in the subject.
Poor Priscilla!
"If I knew that I loved any one.
She thought over it for a long time, her handsome eyes brooding over the red coals, but after about half an hour she spoke out aloud to the silence of the room.
He will not come back again until July, when he is to marry Miss Gower."
It seemed to her so strange a thing for Miss Priscilla Gower to say, that her pronoun was almost an interjection.
She even wrote to Vienna, and told Denis that they were coming, herself and Theodora North, and he must wait and meet them if possible.
The truth was that the curious enchantment of the day had not been altogether sad, and at seventeen one does not comprehend that fate can be wholly bitter, or that some turn in fortune is not in store for the future, however hopeless the present may seem.
It was a great trial to Theodora, this.
But she was even more silent than she had seemed at first, Theo thought, and she was sure her pale, handsome face was paler, though, of course, that was easily to be accounted for by her lover's absence.
"He loved me-me.
She was sitting at work near them, when Theo chanced to mention Arthur Brunwalde, and, to her surprise, Priscilla looked up from her desk immediately.
Business had called him away, and Lady Throckmorton, of course, knew what such business was, and how imperative its demands were.
"That is a strange question," Miss Elizabeth interposed.
She was beginning to feel more strangely concerning mr Denis Oglethorpe, and it was Priscilla Gower who had stirred her heart.
She was a woman of caprices, and her caprices always ruled the day, as this one did, to Theo's great astonishment.
She had that evening received a letter from Denis herself, and it had suggested an idea to her.
Novels had been delightful at Downport, when they were read in hourly fear of the tasks that always interfered to prevent any indulgence; but in those days, for some reason, they were not as satisfactory as they appeared once, and so being thrown on her own resources, she succumbed to the very natural girlish weakness of feeling a sort of fascination for Broome street.
"He loved me," she said.
"I do not think I have any message to send," she replied.
So when Theo broke into exclamations of pleasure and astonishment, she did not understand either her enthusiasm or her surprise.
"Thank you, Miss Priscilla."
She hoped he would have left Vienna before the letter reached him; she hoped he might go away in spite of it; she hoped it might never reach him at all.
"I should never love any one else."
The first time Theo ever saw her display an interest in anybody, or in anything, was when she first heard Pamela's love story mentioned.
"I?" said Theo.
The current had carried her along so far, and she had not been to blame, because she had not comprehended her danger; but now it was different.
THE SEPARATION.
When Theo went into the little back bedroom that evening to put on her hat, Priscilla Gower went with her, and, as she stood before the dressing table buttoning her sacque, she was somewhat puzzled by the expression on her companion's face.
Have you any message to send?"
Priscilla got up from her chair, and, coming to the hearth, leaned against the low mantel, pen in hand.
"No," she replied, almost timidly.
"But I think Theodora knows," she said, briefly.
She was learning that it was best for her not to see Denis Oglethorpe again, and here it seemed that she must see him in spite of herself, even though she was conscientious enough to wish to do what was best, not so much because it was best for herself, as because it was just to Priscilla Gower.
It was a feeling scarcely defined enough to allow her to decide whether it was real pain or only discomfort.
"I would have stayed anywhere to have seen him only for a minute.
The last time I visited the Spas, my health improved greatly."
He had no need to be so ready to go away." And then she found herself burning all over, as it were, in her shame at discovering how bold her thoughts had been.
The household seemed rather quiet after the change.
But Priscilla was looking straight at Theo's downcast eyes.
We are not alike at all."
She was far more sorry for Priscilla than she was for herself, though it was Priscilla who had won the lover, and herself who had lost him forever.
She took her muff then, and went back to the parlor to kiss Miss Elizabeth, in a strange frame of mind.
"Are you like your sister in that, Theodora?
"I knew at seventeen."
Her tone was such a strange one that Theo lifted her face with a faint, startled look.
The elder Miss Gower was always communicative, and always ready to talk about her favorites, and to Theo, in her half puzzled, half sad frame of mind, this was a curious consolation.
"Yes," answered Theo; "but he died, you know."
"He might have waited," Theo said to herself, with an unexpected, inconsistent feeling of wretchedness.
"I am not old enough to know yet."
Theo dropped her ivory crochet needle, and bent to pick it up, with a blurred vision and nervous fingers.
She found Lady Throckmorton waiting at home for her, to her surprise, in a new mood.
"And poor Pam could not forget him," she added, her usual tender reverence for poor Pam showing itself in her sorrowing voice.
"mr Oglethorpe told me so."
"Is your sister like you?" she asked.
"You are seventeen," said Priscilla.
Perhaps this was the first time she really awoke to a full consciousness of where she had drifted.
Lady Throckmorton missed him also, but she had the solace of her novels and her chocolate, which Theo had not.
"Not at all," rejoined Thorndyke; "the finger print is a most valuable clue as long as its evidential value is not exaggerated.
So there the matter rests."
As to the other matter, I have asked Reuben, and he has no recollection of ever having made a thumb mark in blood.
Reuben's rooms have been searched by the police, who failed to find any skeleton or duplicate keys; but this proves nothing, as he would probably have made away with them when he heard of the thumb mark being found.
"How did it happen?" I asked when Polton had crept away on tip toe to make ready for dinner.
"On the supposition," I replied, "that mr Hornby was in actual pecuniary difficulties at the date of the robbery, it seems to me possible to construct a hypothesis as to the identity of the robber."
I was burning with impatience to impart my news to him, and this fact, together with the ghostly proceedings of Polton, worked me up to a state of nervous tension that rendered either rest or thought equally impossible.
"'Therefore the crime was committed by john Smith.'"
"A sudden slump often proves disastrous to the regular Stock Exchange gambler who is paying differences on large quantities of unpaid for stock.
"'The crime was committed by the person who made this finger print.
The result was, on the whole, disappointing.
It would be interesting to know for certain."
"A queer affair, Jervis; a very odd affair indeed.
After my colleague retired, which he did quite early, I sat for a long time pondering upon this singular case in which I found myself involved. And the more I thought about it the more puzzled I became.
CHAPTER eight
Take our present case, for instance.
Then the near wheel struck my head, making a dirty little scalp wound, and pinned down my sleeve so that I couldn't pull away my arm, which is consequently barked all the way down.
"That practically leaves the case to be investigated without reference to the finger print, which thus becomes of no importance."
Without the thumb print, the robbery might have been committed by anybody; there is no clue whatever.
"And what about mr Hornby's liability for the diamonds?"
"It is a highly improbable one," I began with some natural shyness at the idea of airing my wits before this master of inductive method; "in fact, it is almost fantastic."
But there is no such thing as a single fact that 'affords evidence requiring no corroboration.' As well might one expect to make a syllogism with a single premise." "I suppose they would hardly go so far as that," I said, laughing.
Thorndyke looked round to make sure that his henchman had departed, and said-
"Dinner and a clothes brush are what I chiefly need." Nevertheless, he looked very pale and shaken when he came into the light on the landing, and he sank into his easy chair in the limp manner of a man either very weak or very fatigued.
In that work I remember he states that a finger print affords evidence requiring no corroboration-a most dangerous and misleading statement which has been fastened upon eagerly by the police, who have naturally been delighted at obtaining a sort of magic touchstone by which they are saved the labour of investigation.
"No, of course not," he replied, but without much conviction, as it seemed to me; and I was about to pursue the matter when Polton reappeared, and my friend abruptly changed the subject.
I ran down the stairs and met Thorndyke coming up slowly with his right hand on Polton's shoulder.
"I do hope, sir, you're not much hurt?"
"Well, that is a perfectly good syllogism, isn't it?" I asked.
But it can hardly have been quite sudden and unforeseen."
"I have entertained it from the first; and the new facts that you have gathered increase its probability.
But you have some special point in your mind, I think."
"But the kind of syllogism that they do make is this-
The thumb print, however, transfers the suspicion to Reuben; but yet, as your theory makes evident, it does not completely clear john Hornby.
"I should think not," Thorndyke agreed.
"It might have a considerable bearing on the present case, might it not?"
"Yes," replied Thorndyke.
When I had finished, he remained silent for some time, looking thoughtfully into the fire and evidently considering how my theory and the new facts on which it was based would fit in with the rest of the data.
Of course I went sprawling into the road right in front of the lorry.
You have really done a great thing, and I congratulate you; for you have emancipated yourself, at least to some extent, from the great finger print obsession, which has possessed the legal mind ever since Galton published his epoch making monograph.
An alcoholic apple woman picked me up and escorted me back to the hospital. It must have been a touching spectacle," he added, with a dry smile at the recollection.
The Temple clock had announced in soft and confidential tones that it was a quarter to seven, in which statement it was stoutly supported by its colleague on our mantelpiece, and still there was no sign of Thorndyke.
"As to Walter Hornby, he may have had the means of obtaining Reuben's thumb mark; but there is no evidence that he had access either to the diamonds or to mr Hornby's memorandum block.
"You mean the man pushing you down in that way?"
"But, you see, it begs the whole question, which is, 'Was the crime committed by the person who made this finger print?' That is where the corroboration is required."
"'But john Smith is the person who made the finger print.
As the case stands, the balance of probabilities may be stated thus: john Hornby undoubtedly had access to the diamonds, and therefore might have stolen them.
"I think we may dismiss that," answered Thorndyke.
He would not be liable at law."
Then you consider my theory of john Hornby as the perpetrator of the robbery as quite a tenable one?" "Quite," replied Thorndyke.
"Never mind that," said he.
You remember I said that four hypotheses were possible: that the robbery was committed either by Reuben, by Walter, by john Hornby, or by some other person.
Now, putting aside the 'some other person' for consideration only if the first three hypotheses fail, we have left, Reuben, Walter, and john.
"Yes, I see.
A SUSPICIOUS ACCIDENT
"And I suppose they kept you there for a time to recover?"
Thus encouraged, I proceeded to set forth the theory of the crime as it had occurred to me on my way home in the fog, and I was gratified to observe the close attention with which Thorndyke listened, and his little nods of approval at each point that I made.
"Undoubtedly," said Thorndyke.
"A sound thinker gives equal consideration to the probable and the improbable."
"Those are the points-with some others-and they are likely to remain unsettled.
At this moment Polton made a silent appearance on the stairs leading from the laboratory, giving me quite a start; and I was about to retire into the room when my ear caught the tinkle of a hansom approaching from Paper Buildings.
"It might bear on the case in more ways than one.
It was a mighty near thing, Jervis; another inch or two and I should have been rolled out as flat as a starfish."
"Perfectly," he replied.
The horses came stamping and sliding straight on to me, and, before I could wriggle out of the way, the hoof of one of them smashed in my hat-that was a new one that I came home in-and half stunned me.
"This theory of yours, Jervis, does great credit to your ingenuity.
"What became of the man?" I asked, wishing I could have had a brief interview with him.
"But john Hornby may have had access to the previously made thumb mark of Reuben, and may possibly have obtained it; in which case he is almost certainly the thief.
"I am not really hurt at all," Thorndyke replied cheerily, "though very disreputable to look at.
"Yes.
"And now, there is something else, a subject upon which I wish to ask your unbiased opinion, my dear Theodora, before I say good bye.
"Are you coming to see Priscilla?" he said.
But her manner was not changed in the least, and she welcomed her visitor with grave cordiality.
"I will not ask you."
"Yes, madame," Theo faltered, very unsteadily, indeed.
A polite fiction by the way, as my lady was looking her best.
"I want you to deliver a message to Lady Throckmorton for me," he said. "May I trouble you, Theodora?"
She attended to Miss Elizabeth's octagon stitch, and left him to amuse Priscilla.
He did not wait for the footman this time; but, after assisting her to get in, closed the door himself, and leaned against the open window for a moment.
"Yes, ma'am," answered Theo, and as she spoke, she felt a curious, startled glow flash over her.
"My late lamented parents, at the respective ages of fifty and fifty seven.
"Don't forget to tell Jane, Priscilla, and-" fumbling in her large side pocket, "here's the key of the preserve closet.
But when the carriage was announced, and she returned to the parlor, after an absence of a few minutes, drawing on her gloves, and buttoning her pretty jacket close up to her beautiful slender, dusky throat, Denis took his hat and accompanied her to the carriage.
He did not even open the carriage door himself, but waited for the footman to do it.
It was an Afghan Miss Elizabeth was making now; and when at tea time, mr Oglethorpe came, he found Theodora North sitting on the hearth, flushed with industrious anxiety, and thrown into reflected glow of brilliant Berlin wool, a beautiful young spider in a gorgeous Afghan web.
The day passed pleasantly enough, however, in a quiet way.
The nice little company dinner reminded her of it; the solitary little roast fowl and the preserves and puddings; but the company dinners at Downport had always been detracted from by the sharp annoyance in Pam's face, and the general domestic bustle, and the total inadequacy of gravy and stuffing to the wants of the boys.
"No!" he exclaimed.
She gave him her hand through the carriage window, and, for a moment, he held it, to all appearance quite calm, as he looked down at the lovely face the flare of an adjacent gaslight revealed to him against a background of shadow.
mr Denis Oglethorpe would be a rich man some of these days, and then what a happy life must Priscilla's be-so young, so beautiful, so beloved.
Consequently, under stress of Miss Elizabeth, the carriage was fain to depart, much to the abasement of the fat, gray coachman, who felt himself much dishonored in finding he was compelled, not only to pay majestic calls to Broome street, but to acknowledge the humiliating fact of friendly visits.
It was very foolish, of course, but she felt as if something painful was going to happen, and nothing on earth could prevent it.
Quince preserve, my dear, and white currant jelly."
She was often both sarcastic and indifferent in her manner toward Sir Dugald.
She had a pale, handsome, ungirlish face-a Minerva face-steady, grave, handsome eyes, and a fine head, unadorned, save with a classic knot of black brown hair.
"Thank you," he returned again.
"I was glad to see you.
"Yes," she said to him.
"We must have a fire in the best parlor, my dear," chirped Elizabeth, ecstatically, when Theo's hat and jacket were being carried out of the room.
I will deliver your message to Lady Throckmorton; and as I shall not see you again, unless I am here in July-of course you will come back then-good bye, mr Oglethorpe."
He had better go away."
Her quickened heart might almost have been running a life and death race with her leaping pulse, but she answered him almost steadily.
What would you advise me to get, Miss Gower?"
And now, perhaps, you had better tell the coachman to drive on.
She bent her head with an unpleasantly quickened heart beat.
It was a small picture, half life-size, and set in an oval frame of black walnut.
Poor little snuff colored Miss Elizabeth was delighted.
"Oh, dear!" said Theodora, secretly conscious of a guilty sympathy for the giddy young person who ran counter to brother Benjamin's wishes, in the matter of military balls and blue satin slippers.
"You are quite right.
This morning, when you spoke to me through the carriage window, you began to say something about being glad.
Don't you think so?"
"My dear," she said to Theodora, "that is the most beautiful face in London, to my old eyes.
"Good bye," he said, and then released it.
Were you going to say-"
He broke off here, sharply.
She was getting very fond of company in her old age, and had taken a great fancy to Theodora North.
"Oh, mr Oglethorpe!" she cried out.
This was the first time an actual approach to the subject had been made in her presence.
"Yes, my love!" Miss Elizabeth proceeded.
Be good enough to say to Lady Throckmorton that I regret deeply that I could not see her before going; but-but the news has been sudden, and my time is fully occupied; but I will write to her from my first stopping place."
My sister, Anastasia; my only brother, my sister in law, his wife; and my dear Priscilla, at seventeen years."
He came to the window, and looked in at her.
Theodora was reminded of Downport that day, in a hundred ways.
The picture was not even younger looking than Priscilla was now.
"Thank you," he replied, courteously, and then, after a short hesitation, began again, in the tone he used so often-the tone that might be jest or earnest.
She did not know what a struggle it cost him to face her thus carelessly all at once.
"I am so glad-" and then stopped, in a confusion and trepidation absolutely brilliant.
Cards! cards!
His term expires next year and I fear we shall lose him."
"He seemed to be packing the day I was there.
Governor Balloon was nothing less than a father to the poor Indians.
"Daft is a little strong, Laura.
Don't you think so Colonel?"
The Senator laughed, but rather feebly, and said, "Balloon is always full of his jokes."
"Gave them the outside slabs to fence in the reservation with.
"Well Senator Balloon put fifteen cents worth of stamps on each of those seven huge boxes of old clothes, and shipped that ton of second-hand rubbish, old boots and pantaloons and what not through the mails as registered matter!
"Free?" repeated Laura, with indignation in her face.
"In the committee of the whole things are working very well.
He's a very cautious man.
"With me!"
His rooms were full of dry goods boxes, into which his servant was crowding all manner of old clothes and stuff: I suppose he will paint 'Pub.
It is a harsh term.
And then Hicks went on, with a serious air,
What did he say?"
The Senate is full of them.
And he said he felt he couldn't vote for it.
She was acquainted by this time with a good many of the young fellows of Newspaper Row; and exchanged gossip with them to their mutual advantage.
He was ex officio Indian agent, too.
Committee.
"john Jay and Benjamin Franklin were well enough in their day, but the nation has made progress since then.
He is spoken of for the post of Minister to China, or Austria, and I hope will be appointed.
But I have one principle in my public life, which I should like you to keep in mind; it has always been my guide.
He said it was all right, he only wanted a word with you,", continued Laura.
"Yes, and he seemed to have a new light on the measure: I think will vote for it."
"He will help us, I suppose?
I honor my country's public servants as much as any one can.
"Ah, come in, sit down," and the Senator closed the book and laid it down.
Balloon is a man we know and can depend on to be true to himself."
"Is there anything more?"
Before she did that, however, she took out her note book and was soon deep in its contents; marking, dashing, erasing, figuring, and talking to herself.
It was an ingenious thing and it had a genuine touch of humor about it, too.
I have been with him a great deal on conference committees.
"Those are my private marks.
"Not shy, child, cautious.
But Balloon is not alone, we have many truly noble statesmen in our country's service like Balloon.
There . . . .
"Don't misunderstand me, I don't deny that it is for the interest of all of us that this bill should go through, and it will.
"Yes, Balloon is a man of parts, there is no denying it"
"I think I convinced him.
Uncle Balloon!--Tells very amusing stories . . . when ladies are not present . . .
The Senator spoke with feeling, and then added,
That is what Dilworthy said.
I do not like to use it."
He's a fine man, a very fine man. I don't know any man in congress I'd sooner go to for help in any Christian work.
I have no concealments from you.
I meet them, Sir, every day, and the more I see of them the more I esteem them and the more grateful I am that our institutions give us the opportunity of securing their services.
He's a kind of-"
Wouldn't Dilworthy open his eyes if he knew some of the things Balloon did say to me.
Time to report progress from the committee of the whole," and the Senator beamed with his own congressional wit.
Sellers."
He built a government saw mill on the reservation with the money, and the lumber sold for enormous prices-a relative of his did all the work free of charge-that is to say he charged nothing more than the lumber would bring." "But the poor Injuns-not that I care much for Injuns-what did he do for them?"
I went over the whole thing.
I wonder what Dilworthy does think of me anyway?
"Indeed he was.
"Oh, no I told him you were daft about the negro and the philanthropy part of it, as you are."
"That is true, Colonel.
The Senator beamed again.
"Yes.
"Yes.
I expect to see the chairman of the committee to day, mr Buckstone."
Many a man would have taken the Indian appropriation and devoted the money to feeding and clothing the helpless savages, whose land had been taken from them by the white man in the interests of civilization; but Balloon knew their needs better.
I must chance to meet him to day."
I meant nothing, Balloon talks a little freely sometimes, with men.
I had to tell him some of the side arrangements, some of the-"
"It's a funny world.
But you know that I wouldn't touch this bill if it were not for the public good, and for the good of the colored race; much as I am interested in the heirs of this property, and would like to have them succeed."
Laura looked a little incredulous, and the Senator proceeded.
There.
He was governor of one of the territories a while, and was very satisfactory."
"Free!
While Laura is on her errand to find mr Buckstone, it may not be out of the way to remark that she knew quite as much of Washington life as Senator Dilworthy gave her credit for, and more than she thought proper to tell him.
He puts on an air of levity sometimes, but there aint a man in the senate knows the scriptures as he does.
"Did you see Hopperson last night after the congressional prayer meeting?"
"Those checked off are all right."
The three committeemen . . . sons in law.
That 'C' stands for 'convinced,' with argument.
"I wanted to see you.
Yes, I am perfectly sure he will vote right now."
"I did.
Very strange . . . .
Good bye, uncle.
"Oh, I saw Senator Balloon"
And if you pay fifteen cents for registering it, the government will have to take extra care of it and even pay you back its full value if it is lost.
Seemed to be in love . . . . .
I believe that you and I together could run this government beautifully, uncle."
"He is a handsome old gentleman, and he is gallant for an old man."
Dilworthy must surely know I understand him.
I was sure of it.
"You didn't mention me?"
"Not exactly, he said-shall I tell you what he said?" asked Laura glancing furtively at him.
"My daughter," said the Senator, with a grave look, "I trust there was nothing free in his manner?"
"Oh, he beat around a little.
What is the 'C' before some of the names, and the 'B.
"I hope so; his name will give tone and strength to it.
Docs' on them and frank them home.
Laura smiled, and said, forgetting her acquired correctness of speech,
Nothing like a son in law here in Washington or a brother in law. . . .
What we want abroad is good examples of the national character.
Son in law . . . sinecure in the negro institution. . . .
He did not make any objections?"
"He said that, did he?"
He promised to come here . . . and he hasn't. . . .
He was shy."
Few lands are so blest."
If we secure him we shall have a favorable report by the committee, and it will be a great thing to be able to state that fact quietly where it will do good."
"You'll find some changes in that I guess," handing the Senator a printed list of names.
The Colonel wanted to know all about it, and Hicks told him.
To be sure you can buy now and then a Senator or a Representative but they do not know it is wrong, and so they are not ashamed of it.
I suppose it's so.".
"He said he had no doubt it was a good thing; if Senator Dilworthy was in it, it would pay to look into it."
"Yes.
"Yes, yes, but child, all Congressmen do that.
"I think so.
Now, Colonel, can you picture Jefferson, or Washington or john Adams franking their wardrobes through the mails and adding the facetious idea of making the government responsible for the cargo for the sum of one dollar and five cents? Statesmen were dull creatures in those days.
I'm going to see that chairman."
We have made ever so much progress in a week.
You see it stands before three of the honorable
But he is right at heart.
Uncle Dilworthy . . . .
Balloon is a whole hearted fellow.
And yet when you come to look at it you cannot deny that we would have to go without the services of some of our ablest men, sir, if the country were opposed to-to-bribery.
"I hope you showed Hopperson that our motives were pure?"
The 'B.
It seems that they had got hold of the dry goods box packing story about Balloon, one day, and were talking it over when the Colonel came in.
"So, you must, he ought to be seen without any delay.
Senator Dilworthy was alone-with an open Bible in his hand, upside down.
I have a much greater admiration for Senator Balloon."
"That's encouraging.
I knew you would only have to show him that it was just and pure, in order to secure his cordial support."
He said he should like to help the negro, his heart went out to the negro, and all that-plenty of them say that but he was a little afraid of the Tennessee Land bill; if Senator Dilworthy wasn't in it, he should suspect there was a fraud on the government."
"Certainly."
"There, there, child.
Queer. . . .
"I explained it to him.
They were always talking in the Row, everlastingly gossiping, bantering and sarcastically praising things, and going on in a style which was a curious commingling of earnest and persiflage.
That about gauges him. . . .
I can't help loving that man, for all his drollery and waggishness.
He wants reasons, good ones. Didn't you show him he was in error about the bill?"
"Yes, and Balloon has had a good deal of public experience.
It may not be strictly honest, indeed it is not unless he had some public documents mixed in with the clothes."
That's good economy, isn't it?"
He came.
"It is only me."
"That's good, that's good," said the Senator; smiling, and rubbing his hands.
Strange.
I never push a private interest if it is not Justified and ennobled by some larger public good.
And everybody has 'em. . . .Let's see: . . . sixty one. . . . with places . . . twenty five . . . persuaded-it is getting on; . . . . we'll have two thirds of Congress in time . . .
I must find that chairman.
I think there is more real talent among our public men of to day than there was among those of old times-a far more fertile fancy, a much happier ingenuity.
Hopperson's influence ought to count twenty . . . the sanctimonious old curmudgeon.
Isn't that so?"
Laura went down stairs, knocked at/the study door, and entered, scarcely waiting for the response.
You will not forsake me?"
"Check, old boy!"
"Very likely.
"Why did you ask the Gogoffs?
She spoils the look of the room."
mrs Lewis stood up.
Why not instantly?"
Massachusetts mrs
I replied, "I am here."
Went there and found our clothes.
Of the experience mrs Lewis wrote:-
Third Group
We began at once to serve the writ.
Was stretched on bed, two doctors, matron, four colored prisoners present, Whittaker in hall.
The following is the statement of mrs Nolan, dictated upon her release, in the presence of mr Dudley Field Malone:
It had to stop picketing.
They contended that sentence imposed upon a person for unlawful acts in the District should be executed in the District.
Slept hardly at all.
I burst into tears as they led me away.
I saw men begin to come upon the porch, but I didn't think anything about it.
mouth, or I will handcuff you, gag you and put you in a straitjacket. . .
She is a frail girl.
thursday november sixteenth . . . .
Picketing must be stopped!
None could be reached by telephone.
"If you will only drop these proceedings, I can absolutely guarantee you that the prisoners will be removed from the workhouse to the jail in a week:"
Although the writ had been applied for in the greatest secrecy, a detective suddenly appeared to accompany mr O'Brien from Washington to Norfolk, during his stay in Norfolk, and back to Washington.
And so the forty one women returned to the White House gates to resume' their picketing.
All of us were seized by men guards and dragged to cells in men's part.
I didn't have my feet on the ground.
The guards acted brutal in the extreme, incited to their brutal conduct towards us, . . , by the superintendent.
It is impossible for me to describe the terror of that night. . .
Finally the tube was withdrawn.
I could not sleep, having a sense of constant danger . . . .
The answer was definite and final. Their resistance was superb.
Mine was filthy.
Left nostril, throat and muscles of neck very sore all night.
Counsel sought a deputy.
"Why this mysterious week?" we asked.
They were not in uniform.
So thought the Administration! To their great surprise, however, in the face of that reckless and extreme sentence, the longest picket line of the entire campaign formed at the White House in the late afternoon of november tenth.
The walls and floors were brick or stone cemented over.
It seemed to me that everything had been done from the time we reached the workhouse to terrorize us, and my fear lest the extreme of outrage would be worked upon the young girls of our party became intense.
"You're posted," said i
I hope that you will carry your point and force the hand of the government soon'."
Each one was called to the mat and interrogated.
We thought she was dead.
"Will you eat?"-"Will you stop picketing?"-"Will you go without paying your fine and promise never to picket again?"
health but militant in spirit, said she had come to take her place with the women struggling for liberty in the same spirit that her revolutionary ancestor, Eliza Zane, had carried bullets to the fighters in the war for independence.
I thought of the offense with which we had been charged,-merely that of obstructing traffic,-and felt that the treatment that we had received was out of all proportion to the offense with which we were charged, and that the superintendent, the matron and guards would not have dared to act towards us as they had acted unless they relied upon the support of higher authorities.
The superintendent shouted to me, "Oh, no, you won't; don't talk about protest; I won't have any of that nonsense."
the workhouse to the District, where he kept himself discreetly hidden for several days.
before.
I am used to remembering a bad foot, which I have had for years, and I remember saying, "I'll come with you; don't drag me;
William Kent, Kentfield. Oregon Miss Alice Gram, Miss Betty Gram, Portland. Utah mrs
The next day they brought me some toast and a plate of food, the first I had been offered in over thirty six hours.
There were exceptionally dramatic figures in this group.
Tube drawn out covered with blood.
It is a great pity that such women should be subjected to this treatment.
Again they were arrested.
The Administration was alarmed.
"'This is the most magnificent sacrifice I have ever seen made for a principle [he said I never believed that American women would care so much about freedom.
I am not yet prepared to try the case."
Told we were to go to Washington.
We quickened our pace.
Her head struck the iron bed.
Previous to the feeding I had been forcibly examined by dr Gannon, I protesting that I wished a woman physician.
They brought that, and I noticed they did not lock the door.
This was her second term of imprisonment. She wrote a comprehensive affidavit of her experience.
Failing to secure this, she went daily to mr Tumulty's office asking if he himself would not intercede for her.
"In a week?
I turned and twisted my head all I could, but he managed to push it up.
mrs john Winters Brannan was among the women who endured the "night of terror." mrs Brannan is the daughter of Charles a Dana, founder of the New York Sun and that great American patriot of liberty who was a trusted associate -and counselor of Abraham Lincoln.
Elizabeth Hamilton, mrs Ella o Guilford, New York City; Miss Amy Juengling, Miss Hattie Kruger, Buffalo.
wednesday november fourteenth.
Whether this was done legally or illegally, logically or illogically, clumsily or dexterously, was of secondary importance.
mrs Herndon, the matron, said we would have to wait up all night.
Then I lost my balance and fell against the iron bed.
Instantly Superintendent Whittaker rushed forward, shouting at me, "Stop that; not another word from your
Face to face with an embarrassing number of prisoners the Administration used its wits and decided to reduce the number to a manageable size before imprisoning this group.
They looked as much like tramps as anything.
He urged her, however, to pay her fine, hinting that jail might be too severe on her and might bring on death.
The day following their commitment to Occoquan mr O'Brien, of counsel, was directed to see the women, to ascertain their condition.
"Get a doctor to examine her," he said.
The Administration tried in another way to stop picketing.
I was released on the sixth day and passed the dispensary as I came out.
mrs Cosu called out, "They have just thrown mrs Lewis in here, too."
Telephone wires at our headquarters were tapped.
"But I tell you, you must not proceed."
It had been agreed that the demand to be treated as political prisoners, inaugurated by previous pickets, should be continued, and that failing to secure such rights they would unanimously refuse to eat food or do prison labor.
But their minds were too full of the political aspect of our offense to conceal it. "The truth of the situation is that the court has not been given power to meet it," the judge lamented.
their sentences in the District Jail, where they would join Miss Paul and her companions, all save one were immediately sent to Occoquan workhouse.
He refused to hear our demand for political rights. Seized by guards from behind, flung off my feet, and shot out of the room.
Food dumped directly into stomach feels like a ball
We decided to take the only course open to obtain a writ of habeas corpus.
He brought news that unknown tortures were going on.
"We cannot wait."
This morning dr Ladd appeared with his tube.
dr Gannon told me then I must be fed.
During all of this time, . . . Superintendent Whittaker was . . . directing the whole attack. . . .
She is a little girl.
Chapter eleven
I was handcuffed all night and manacled to the bars part of the time for asking the others how they were, and was threatened with a straitjacket and a buckle gag.
"One of the few warning incidents during the gray days of our imprisonment was the unexpected sympathy and understanding of one of the government doctors," wrote Miss Betty Gram of portland oregon.
Demanded to see Superintendent Whittaker. Request refused.
George Scott, Montclair. Pennsylvania mrs
I think I made him think.
Miss Burns is so gifted a writer that I feel apologetic for using these scraps in their raw form, but I know she will forgive me.
Forty one women picketed in protest against this wanton persecution of their leader, as well as against the delay in passing the amendment.
Harvey Wiley. Louisiana mrs
I bade them both good by.
New York mrs
She had hardly begun to speak, saying we demanded to be treated as political prisoners, when Whittaker said:
We could see a crowd of them on the porch.
Second Group
First Group
It made me sick . . . .
"Will you work?"-"Will you put on prison clothes?"
I was seized and laid on my back, where five people held me, a young colored woman leaping upon my knees, which seemed to break under the weight.
Asked for Whittaker, who came.
I said, "no"
The following morning the women were ordered by Judge Mullowny to "come back on Friday.
Persons convicted in the District for acts committed in violation of District law were transported to Virginia alien territory to serve their terms.
In order to show how widely representative of the nation this group of pickets was, I give its personnel complete:
In the hospital cottage I was met by mrs Herndon and taken to a little room with two white beds and a hospital table.
j h Short, Minneapolis. Iowa mrs
We were so terrified we kept very still.
They stood guard several minutes before the police, taken unawares, could summon sufficient force to arrest them, and commandeer enough cars to carry them to police headquarters.
They were perfectly dark.
I was told to "shut up," and was again threatened with a straitjacket and a buckle gag.
Fourth Group
When we were dressed, dr Gannon appeared, and said he wished to examine us.
I fell back again into the same stupor.
Charles w Barnes, Indianapolis. Oklahoma mrs
mr O'Brien was denied admission and forced to come back to Washington without any report whatsoever.
out: "There was no disorder.
Here are some of the scraps of Miss Burn's day by day log, smuggled out of the workhouse.
I went first.
This week of brutality, which rivaled old Russia, if it did not outstrip it, was almost the blackest page in the Administration's cruel fight against women.
I guess that saved me.
Miss Burns received six months.
It was evident that the Administration was cognizant of every move in this procedure before it was executed.
I took off my coat and hat.
Administration Terrorism
She was fed after three days.
Of this experience, Miss Burns wrote on tiny scraps of paper:
He motioned to the guard.
This conservative, Southern judge said of the petition for the writ, "It is shocking and blood curdling."
A negro trusty was there.
"It is very, very puzzling I find you guilty of the offense charged, but will take the matter of sentence under advisement."
Kate Stafford, Oklahoma City. Minnesota mrs
Alice m Cosu, New Orleans. Maryland Miss Mary Bartlett Dixon, Easton; Miss Julia Emory, Baltimore. Florida mrs
Operation leaves one very sick.
Lawrence Lewis, Miss Elizabeth McShane, Miss Katherine Lincoln, Philadelphia.
You girls are on your ninth day of hunger strike and your condition is critical.
We hear them outside now cracking eggs.
Fifth Group
Failing of that they tried still another way out.
There were frequent references to the pluck of the silent sentinels."
Suddenly the door literally burst open and Whittaker burst in like a tornado; some men followed him.
All failed.
Any words of mine would be inadequate to tell the story of the prisoners' reception at the Occoquan workhouse.
New York Miss Lucy Burns, New York City. District of Columbia mrs
Eva Decker, Colorado Springs, mrs Genevieve Williams, Manitou.
California mrs
Admission was denied to all of them.
I saw Dorothy Day brought in.
After this I was brought into the hospital in an ambulance.
Both refused.
weakened condition and before the end of the week they hoped to increase their facilities for forcible feeding at the workhouse. They also wished to conceal the treatment of the women, the exposure of which would be inevitable in any court proceedings. And lastly, the Administration was anxious to avoid opening up the whole question of the legality of the very existence of the workhouse in Virginia.
The effect of this upon our nerves can better be imagined than described . . . .
A man sprang at me and caught me by the shoulder.
FISH STOCK.
Put in the oysters, stir well, but do not let it boil, and serve very hot.
From some lines of Oppian, it would appear that the ancients were ignorant that the oyster is generally found adhering to rocks.
Give one boil up, at the same time adding the tails cut in pieces.
Simmer for two hours; skim the liquor carefully, and strain it. When a richer stock is wanted, fry the vegetables and fish before adding the water.
When it is well cooked, put in a few picked prawns; let them get thoroughly hot, and serve.
FISH SOUPS.
Make the forcemeat balls with the remainder of the lobster, seasoned with mace, pepper, and salt, adding a little flour, and a few bread crumbs; moisten them with the egg, heat them in the soup, and serve.
Put in the fish, but do not let the soup boil, after it has been rubbed through the tammy.
Take a pint of the stock, put in the beards and the liquor, which must be carefully strained, and simmer for one half an hour.
Take it off the fire, strain it again, and add the remainder of the stock with the seasoning and mace.
PRAWN SOUP.
THE CRAYFISH.--This is one of those fishes that were highly esteemed by the ancients.
It is to be found on most of the sandy shores of Europe.
The starfish is one of the most deadly enemies of these bivalves.
SEASON OF OYSTERS.--From April and May to the end of July, oysters are said to be sick; but by the end of August they become healthy, having recovered from the effects of spawning. When they are not in season, the males have a black, and the females a milky substance in the gill.
OYSTER SOUP.
The Isle of Wight is famous for shrimps, where they are potted; but both the prawns and the shrimps vended in London, are too much salted for the excellence of their natural flavour to be preserved.
If not thick enough, put in a little butter and flour.
If necessary, add seasoning.
LOBSTER SOUP.
Take them out carefully, mix the flour smoothly to a batter with the cream, bring it to a boil, pour over the eels, and serve.
The Greeks preferred it when brought from Alexandria, and the romans ate it boiled with cumin, and seasoned with pepper and other condiments.
Simmer till the eels are tender, but do not break the fish.
More water would kill them, because the large quantity of air they require necessitates the water in which they are kept, to be continually renewed.
"Odette!
She nodded.
Oh, I am afraid!"
"Unlock and read to night."
On the bicycle?" she asked.
"I didn't suspect----"
She shook her head.
"Not you?"
After all, he had no right or title to this curious purse.
"Because I love you," he said, and his voice shook.
"I could help you.
"Here!"
"May I have that please?"
THE CONFESSION OF ODETTE RIDER
She shook her head.
"Do you mean to say----" he said hoarsely.
Milburgh had gone too far.
"Take it away with you."
"THE CONFESSION OF ODETTE RIDER."
It was the girl's voice, surprisingly clear and steady.
She looked up at his words.
Tarling started.
"No, it was not i"
I want to help you."
"I?
She looked up at him.
He could only gaze in stupified silence.
She did not shrink back, she did not look surprised.
"My promise," he said, "what promise?"
"Won't you please tell me?"
Tarling picked up the wallet from the table and looked at it.
"Who was it?" he asked.
She shook her head.
He walked to the door and unlocked it.
"Ask me!"
"I hope I didn't hurt you?
You perceive how it was: Adam was hungering for the sight of Dinah, and when that sort of hunger reaches a certain stage, a lover is likely to still it though he may have to put his future in pawn.
Adam was glad, for, with the fine instinct of a lover, he felt that it would be best for her to hear his voice before she saw him.
She wants to be quite quiet in her old way for a while.
He treads the earth with a very elastic step as he walks away from her, and makes light of all difficulties.
The weeks were unusually long: Dinah must surely have had more than enough time to make up her mind.
"It's like as if it was a new strength to me," he said to himself, "to love her and know as she loves me.
I'll wait patiently."
What was she thinking of as she wound up the hill?
She had not forbidden him to go.
He must ask Dinah not to leave him in painful doubt longer than was needful.
She was so accustomed to think of impressions as purely spiritual monitions that she looked for no material visible accompaniment of the voice.
The Meeting on the Hill
"I wish I'd asked her to write to me, though," he thought.
That was Adam's wise resolution, and it throve excellently for the first two or three weeks on the nourishment it got from the remembrance of Dinah's confession that Sunday afternoon.
By the second Sunday in October this view of the case had become so clear to Adam that he was already on his way to Snowfield, on horseback this time, for his hours were precious now, and he had borrowed Jonathan Burge's good nag for the journey.
He sat up late one night to write her a letter, but the next morning he burnt it, afraid of its effect.
"Perhaps that's the last hymn before they come away," Adam thought.
Chapter fifty four
Other folks were not created for my sake, that I should think all square when things turn out well for me."
The scene looked less harsh in the soft October sunshine than it had in the eager time of early spring, and the one grand charm it possessed in common with all wide stretching woodless regions-that it filled you with a new consciousness of the overarching sky-had a milder, more soothing influence than usual, on this almost cloudless day.
But towards the middle of October the resolution began to dwindle perceptibly, and showed dangerous symptoms of exhaustion.
She must surely expect that he would go before long.
And this moment, now you are with me, and I feel that our hearts are filled with the same love.
As Adam's confidence waned, his patience waned with it, and he thought he must write himself.
We can no more wish to return to a narrower sympathy than a painter or a musician can wish to return to his cruder manner, or a philosopher to his less complete formula.
There is a wonderful amount of sustenance in the first few words of love.
She's told me what her mind is, and she's not a woman to say one thing and mean another.
And now he began to fear lest he should startle her too much.
If she had not felt this, she would surely have written to him to give him some comfort; but it appeared that she held it right to discourage him.
At last he saw the little black figure coming from between the grey houses and gradually approaching the foot of the hill.
And they walked on so in silence, while the warm tears fell.
He came within three paces of her and then said, "Dinah!" She started without looking round, as if she connected the sound with no place.
And I've no right to be impatient and interrupting her with my wishes.
"Yet," he thought, "she's not one to be overstartled; she's always so calm and quiet, as if she was prepared for anything."
But what harm could he do by going to Snowfield?
He began to fear that perhaps Dinah's old life would have too strong a grasp upon her for any new feeling to triumph.
"I'll walk back a bit and turn again to meet her, farther off the village." He walked back till he got nearly to the top of the hill again, and seated himself on a loose stone, against the low wall, to watch till he should see the little black figure leaving the hamlet and winding up the hill.
He waited an hour at least watching for her and thinking of her, while the afternoon shadows lengthened and the light grew softer.
And if I were capable of that narrow sighted joy in Adam's behalf, I should still know he was not the man to feel it for himself. He would have shaken his head at such a sentiment and said, "Evil's evil, and sorrow's sorrow, and you can't alter it's natur by wrapping it up in other words.
He chose this spot, almost at the top of the hill, because it was away from all eyes-no house, no cattle, not even a nibbling sheep near-no presence but the still lights and shadows and the great embracing sky.
Now she was beginning to wind along the path up the hill, but Adam would not move yet; he would not meet her too soon; he had set his heart on meeting her in this assured loneliness.
Slowly, Adam thought, but Dinah was really walking at her usual pace, with a light quiet step.
His feeling towards Dinah, the hope of passing his life with her, had been the distant unseen point towards which that hard journey from Snowfield eighteen months ago had been leading him.
But that sort of glow dies out: memory gets sadly diluted with time, and is not strong enough to revive us.
Dinah could not be displeased with him for it.
She was much longer coming than he expected.
Tender and deep as his love for Hetty had been-so deep that the roots of it would never be torn away-his love for Dinah was better and more precious to him, for it was the outgrowth of that fuller life which had come to him from his acquaintance with deep sorrow.
My soul is so knit to yours that it is but a divided life I live without you.
On the verge of a decision we all tremble: hope pauses with fluttering wings.
He knew quite well what was in her mind.
Adam was no longer so confident as he had been.
ADAM understood Dinah's haste to go away, and drew hope rather than discouragement from it.
It was Dinah who spoke first.
Adam could never cease to mourn over that mystery of human sorrow which had been brought so close to him; he could never thank God for another's misery.
What a look of yearning love it was that the mild grey eyes turned on the strong dark eyed man!
It would be worse to have a discouraging answer by letter than from her own lips, for her presence reconciled him to her will.
"Now you understand why I didn't after all . . . didn't go out in that way.
'The mists were closing again.
I might have lasted it out better than many others. There's nothing the matter with my heart." He withdrew his right fist from his pocket, and the blow he struck on his chest resounded like a muffled detonation in the night.
And at the time . . ."
But I had plenty of time and any amount of light in that boat.
Confound it!
Not half as old as I felt just then; not half as uselessly wise as I knew myself to be.
I wasn't going to run away.
It was not like a fight, for instance."
And I could think, too.
Wouldn't you?"
That was not the way.
What more natural!
What did it prove after all?
Surely in no other craft as in that of the sea do the hearts of those already launched to sink or swim go out so much to the youth on the brink, looking with shining eyes upon that glitter of the vast surface which is only a reflection of his own glances full of fire.
I wasn't going to be frightened at what I had done.
How much longer?
I ought to have known . . .
You said you would believe." "Of course I do," I protested, in a matter of fact tone which produced a calming effect. "Forgive me," he said.
I was aggrieved against him, as though he had cheated me-me!--of a splendid opportunity to keep up the illusion of my beginnings, as though he had robbed our common life of the last spark of its glamour. "And so you cleared out-at once."
I looked it in the face.
I believe-I believe it would have-it would have ended-nothing."
There was not the thickness of a sheet of paper between the right and the wrong of this affair."
He had advanced his argument as though life had been a network of paths separated by chasms.
'"How much more did you want?" I asked; but I think I spoke so low that he did not catch what I said.
'"And be saved," I interjected.
I am-I am not afraid to tell.
Don't you see what I mean by the solidarity of the craft?
A pause ensued, and suddenly I felt myself overcome by a profound and hopeless fatigue, as though his voice had startled me out of a dream of wandering through empty spaces whose immensity had harassed my soul and exhausted my body.
I wasn't going to give in to such a beastly unfair thing.
Do you think you or anybody could have made me if I . . .
I was not going to give them that satisfaction.
He meditated, with his legs slightly apart and his chin sunk.
And, anyhow, if I had stuck to the ship I would have done my best to be saved.
'"It was not," I admitted.
It was not a lie-but it wasn't truth all the same.
One knows a downright lie.
"You are an awful good sort to listen like this," he said.
They had done enough.
I wanted it: it is the very thing I wanted-there.
"It was something like that wretched story they made up.
He was a youngster of the sort you like to see about you; of the sort you like to imagine yourself to have been; of the sort whose appearance claims the fellowship of these illusions you had thought gone out, extinct, cold, and which, as if rekindled at the approach of another flame, give a flutter deep, deep down somewhere, give a flutter of light . . . of heat! . . .
In thirty seconds, as it seemed certain then, I would have been overboard; and do you think I would not have laid hold of the first thing that came in my way-oar, life buoy, grating-anything?
No! by heavens!
"No! the proper thing was to face it out-alone for myself-wait for another chance-find out . . ."'
You got me here to talk, and . . .
It was the sort of thing one does not expect to happen to one.
'"I would have meant to be," he retorted.
Men have been known to float for hours-in the open sea-and be picked up not much the worse for it.
"A hair's breadth," he muttered.
Perhaps I could not see then.
I don't know how old I appeared to him-and how much wise.
He appeared changed, as if he had suddenly matured.
He fixed me with lowering eyes.
You don't" . . . words seemed to fail him.
Yes . . .
They made up a story, and believed it for all I know.
'"Jumped," he corrected me incisively.
What we get-well, we won't talk of that; but can one of us restrain a smile?
CHAPTER eleven
Come.
'"Suppose I had not-I mean to say, suppose I had stuck to the ship? Well.
'"One couldn't be sure," he muttered.
He was there before me, believing that age and wisdom can find a remedy against the pain of truth, giving me a glimpse of himself as a young fellow in a scrape that is the very devil of a scrape, the sort of scrape greybeards wag at solemnly while they hide a smile.
And he had been deliberating upon death-confound him!
It was something. . . .
It is so difficult-so awfully unfair-so hard to understand."
'He had been walking up and down, but with the last word he turned short at me.
"Not the breadth of a hair between this and that.
"Well, yes!
You've got to believe that, too. I did not want all this talk. . . .
Nobody would know, of course, but this did not make it any easier for me.
I am-I am-a gentleman too . . ." "Yes, yes," I said hastily.
It was a distinct glimpse.
You must! . . .
"Don't you believe me?" he cried.
He had found that to meditate about because he thought he had saved his life, while all its glamour had gone with the ship in the night.
"And that's more than I meant when I" . . . he shivered as if about to swallow some nauseous drug . . .
And I wasn't afraid to think either.
"Jumped-mind!" he repeated, and I wondered at the evident but obscure intention.
'"It is difficult to see a hair at midnight," I put in, a little viciously I fear.
You were not sure," I said, and was placated by the sound of a faint sigh that passed between us like the flight of a bird in the night.
But I knew the truth, and I would live it down-alone, with myself.
He was looking me squarely in the face, and withdrew his gaze slowly.
I won't lie . . .
I was confoundedly cut up. Sick of life-to tell you the truth; but what would have been the good to shirk it-in-in-that way?
'"Well, I wasn't," he said courageously.
"It does me good.
Would have ended nothing," he muttered over me obstinately, after a little while.
Say a minute-half a minute.
What wonder that when some heavy prod gets home the bond is found to be close; that besides the fellowship of the craft there is felt the strength of a wider feeling-the feeling that binds a man to a child.
Facts!
'The captain kept on moving here and there on the bridge; he seemed calm enough, only he stumbled several times; and once as I stood speaking to him he walked right into me as though he had been stone blind.
'After you had concluded you had collided with something floating awash, say a water logged wreck, you were ordered by your captain to go forward and ascertain if there was any damage done.
They wanted facts.
He was becoming irrelevant; a question to the point cut short his speech, like a pang of pain, and he felt extremely discouraged and weary.
He made no definite answer to what I had to tell.
Outside the court the sun blazed-within was the wind of great punkahs that made you shiver, the shame that made you burn, the attentive eyes whose glance stabbed.
I heard him say, "Get up!
I went back to tell the captain.
Jim looked at him, then turned away resolutely, as after a final parting.
The engineer slid down the starboard ladder and bolted round the skylight to the engine room companion which was on the port side.
I followed up in time to see the captain rush at him and knock him down flat on his back. He did not strike him again: he stood bending over him and speaking angrily but quite low.
I knew then there must be a big hole below the water line.' He paused.
'I did not think of danger just then.
A month or so afterwards, when Jim, in answer to pointed questions, tried to tell honestly the truth of this experience, he said, speaking of the ship: 'She went over whatever it was as easy as a snake crawling over a stick.' The illustration was good: the questions were aiming at facts, and the official Inquiry was being held in the police court of an Eastern port.
His mouth was tastelessly dry, as though he had been eating dust, then salt and bitter as after a drink of sea water.
He exclaimed, "My God!
Jim's eyes, wandering in the intervals of his answers, rested upon a white man who sat apart from the others, with his face worn and clouded, but with quiet eyes that glanced straight, interested and clear.
He answered truthfully by a curt 'Yes, I did'; and fair of face, big of frame, with young, gloomy eyes, he held his shoulders upright above the box while his soul writhed within him.
'I did not,' said Jim. 'I was told to call no one and to make no noise for fear of creating a panic.
I took one of the lamps that were hung under the awnings and went forward. After opening the forepeak hatch I heard splashing in there.
The face of the presiding magistrate, clean shaved and impassible, looked at him deadly pale between the red faces of the two nautical assessors.
That man there seemed to be aware of his hopeless difficulty.
I thought the precaution reasonable.
And later on, many times, in distant parts of the world, Marlow showed himself willing to remember Jim, to remember him at length, in detail and audibly.
CHAPTER four
Perhaps it would be after dinner, on a verandah draped in motionless foliage and crowned with flowers, in the deep dusk speckled by fiery cigar ends.
'Yes,' said the big assessor, with a dreamy smile at the blotting pad; his fingers played incessantly, touching the paper without noise.
I knew there was no other bulkhead in the ship but the collision bulkhead separating the forepeak from the forehold.
He mumbled to himself; all I heard of it were a few words that sounded like "confounded steam!" and "infernal steam!"--something about steam.
He had come across that man before-in the street perhaps. He was positive he had never spoken to him.
He was made to answer another question so much to the point and so useless, then waited again.
He was coming to that, he was coming to that-and now, checked brutally, he had to answer by yes or no
Jim answered another question and was tempted to cry out, 'What's the good of this! what's the good!' He tapped with his foot slightly, bit his lip, and looked away over the heads.
He spoke slowly; he remembered swiftly and with extreme vividness; he could have reproduced like an echo the moaning of the engineer for the better information of these men who wanted facts.
He was anxious to make this clear.
They demanded facts from him, as if facts could explain anything!
Jim between two questions forgot himself so far as to find leisure for a thought.
I fancy he was asking him why the devil he didn't go and stop the engines, instead of making a row about it on deck.
The light of a broad window under the ceiling fell from above on the heads and shoulders of the three men, and they were fiercely distinct in the half light of the big court room where the audience seemed composed of staring shadows.
This had not been a common affair, everything in it had been of the utmost importance, and fortunately he remembered everything.
I thought . . .'
Did you think it likely from the force of the blow?' asked the assessor sitting to the left.
His left arm hung by his side.
For days, for many days, he had spoken to no one, but had held silent, incoherent, and endless converse with himself, like a prisoner alone in his cell or like a wayfarer lost in a wilderness.
I came upon the second engineer getting up at the foot of the bridge ladder: he seemed dazed, and told me he thought his left arm was broken; he had slipped on the top step when getting down while I was forward.
I might have been a little startled: all this happened in such a quiet way and so very suddenly.
He met the eyes of the white man. The glance directed at him was not the fascinated stare of the others. It was an act of intelligent volition.
The elongated bulk of each cane chair harboured a silent listener.
At present he was answering questions that did not matter though they had a purpose, but he doubted whether he would ever again speak out as long as he lived.
This fellow-ran the thought-looks at me as though he could see somebody or something past my shoulder.
The sound of his own truthful statements confirmed his deliberate opinion that speech was of no use to him any longer.
She was headed between two small islets, crossed obliquely the anchoring ground of sailing ships, swung through half a circle in the shadow of a hill, then ranged close to a ledge of foaming reefs.
To Jim that gossiping crowd, viewed as seamen, seemed at first more unsubstantial than so many shadows.
His recovery was slow, and he was left behind.
These were of two kinds.
He knew the magic monotony of existence between sky and water: he had to bear the criticism of men, the exactions of the sea, and the prosaic severity of the daily task that gives bread-but whose only reward is in the perfect love of the work.
The fear grows shadowy; and Imagination, the enemy of men, the father of all terrors, unstimulated, sinks to rest in the dullness of exhausted emotion.
They came from solitary huts in the wilderness, from populous campongs, from villages by the sea.
This reward eluded him.
That truth is not so often made apparent as people might think.
The awnings covered the deck with a white roof from stem to stern, and a faint hum, a low murmur of sad voices, alone revealed the presence of a crowd of people upon the great blaze of the ocean.
And under the sinister splendour of that sky the sea, blue and profound, remained still, without a stir, without a ripple, without a wrinkle-viscous, stagnant, dead.
The Patna was a local steamer as old as the hills, lean like a greyhound, and eaten up with rust worse than a condemned water tank.
A string of servants followed, loaded with his luggage; the Patna cast off and backed away from the wharf.
She held on straight for the Red Sea under a serene sky, under a sky scorching and unclouded, enveloped in a fulgor of sunshine that killed all thought, oppressed the heart, withered all impulses of strength and energy.
After two years of training he went to sea, and entering the regions so well known to his imagination, found them strangely barren of adventure. He made many voyages.
They were attuned to the eternal peace of Eastern sky and sea.
She cleared the Strait, crossed the bay, continued on her way through the 'One degree' passage.
They shuddered at the thought of hard work, and led precariously easy lives, always on the verge of dismissal, always on the verge of engagement, serving Chinamen, Arabs, half castes-would have served the devil himself had he made it easy enough.
The nights descended on her like a benediction.
The danger, when not seen, has the imperfect vagueness of human thought.
Jim saw nothing but the disorder of his tossed cabin.
There were perfumes in it, suggestions of infinite repose, the gift of endless dreams.
Eight hundred men and women with faith and hopes, with affections and memories, they had collected there, coming from north and south and from the outskirts of the East, after treading the jungle paths, descending the rivers, coasting in praus along the shallows, crossing in small canoes from island to island, passing through suffering, meeting strange sights, beset by strange fears, upheld by one desire.
At the call of an idea they had left their forests, their clearings, the protection of their rulers, their prosperity, their poverty, the surroundings of their youth and the graves of their fathers.
Some, very few and seen there but seldom, led mysterious lives, had preserved an undefaced energy with the temper of buccaneers and the eyes of dreamers.
But now and again an uncontrollable rush of anguish would grip him bodily, make him gasp and writhe under the blankets, and then the unintelligent brutality of an existence liable to the agony of such sensations filled him with a despairing desire to escape at any cost. Then fine weather returned, and he thought no more about It.
Directly he could walk without a stick, he descended into the town to look for some opportunity to get home.
He walked slowly aboard, handsome and grave in his white gown and large turban.
Yet he could not go back, because there is nothing more enticing, disenchanting, and enslaving than the life at sea.
The Patna, with a slight hiss, passed over that plain, luminous and smooth, unrolled a black ribbon of smoke across the sky, left behind her on the water a white ribbon of foam that vanished at once, like the phantom of a track drawn upon a lifeless sea by the phantom of a steamer.
The majority were men who, like himself, thrown there by some accident, had remained as officers of country ships.
CHAPTER two
He lay there battened down in the midst of a small devastation, and felt secretly glad he had not to go on deck.
In time, beside the original disdain there grew up slowly another sentiment; and suddenly, giving up the idea of going home, he took a berth as chief mate of the Patna.
His lameness, however, persisted, and when the ship arrived at an Eastern port he had to go to the hospital.
Nothing offered just then, and, while waiting, he associated naturally with the men of his calling in the port.
The five whites on board lived amidships, isolated from the human cargo.
Besides, his prospects were good.
He did not care what the end would be, and in his lucid moments overvalued his indifference.
Such were the days, still, hot, heavy, disappearing one by one into the past, as if falling into an abyss for ever open in the wake of the ship; and the ship, lonely under a wisp of smoke, held on her steadfast way black and smouldering in a luminous immensity, as if scorched by a flame flicked at her from a heaven without pity.
They loved short passages, good deck chairs, large native crews, and the distinction of being white.
They appeared to live in a crazy maze of plans, hopes, dangers, enterprises, ahead of civilisation, in the dark places of the sea; and their death was the only event of their fantastic existence that seemed to have a reasonable certitude of achievement.
After the greetings were over, Edward said,
"You know, Humphrey, how many offers Patience Heatherstone has had, and has every day, I may say.
I acknowledge the kindness of mr Heatherstone, and feel that all he asserted to Humphrey is true: still I do not like that I should be indebted to him for a property which is mine, and that he has no right to give.
That his two friends, who were, as the reader will recollect, old acquaintances of Alice and Edith, were warmly received, we hardly need say.
Well, Chaloner, to all appearance, your good aunts have done justice to their charge."
"Have you seen the intendant, Humphrey?"
"Now, Edward, who do you think was here to day-the reigning belle, and the toast of all the gentlemen?"
Then all was explained.
"We shall have some court beauties, Beverley," said the king, looking at him over his shoulder.
"Nature has done more, Edward.
He had written to Humphrey, and had dispatched a messenger with the letter; but the messenger had not yet returned.
But Edward made a sign to Humphrey, and they beat a retreat.
After he had saluted her, the king said, loud enough for Edward to hear,
They have been most important agents in his restoration, and the king's obligations to them are much greater than they are to you.
Now is their time: even a few days' delay may make a difference.
He can not refuse it."
"You mistake, dearest; I am not so foolish; but I have a certain pride, which you can not blame.
"You are right-I will.
"Yes, I did; but let us not talk about it any more, my dear Edith.
"Patience Heatherstone," cried Edward, "the toast of all London!"
As they passed, Edward caught the eye of Edith, and smiled.
Nay, much as I admire, and I may say, fond as I am (for time has not effaced the feeling) of his daughter, it still appears to me that, although not said, it is expected that she is to be included in the transfer; and I will accept no wife on such conditions."
"Indeed?
"The reason for rebuilding the mansion was good.
A month after this interview, Conde, who had been joined by a great number of nobles, and had been re enforced by troops from Spain, set up the standard of revolt.
I thought that I had more control over myself; but I have seen her, and feel that my future happiness depends upon obtaining her as a wife.
You hold a place at court.
"Alice and I have seen Patience, and I fear I must surrender at discretion.
"But why should you say so, Humphrey?
Edward went to Chaloner and Grenville, who were delighted with the intelligence which he brought them.
"After that speech, sir, the sooner you get back again the better!" retorted Edith.
Edward was most kindly received by mr Heatherstone.
"What is your perplexity?"
mr Heatherstone may make his own terms; I must wave all pride rather than lose her.
And yet it must be.
At the time of their joining the king, Richard, the son of Cromwell, who had been nominated Protector, had resigned, and every thing was ready for the Restoration.
"I know but of two that I can recommend from personal knowledge; but these two officers I can venture to pledge myself for."
This is all that we have been able to collect relative to the several parties; and so now we must say farewell.
Can you procure any of your countrymen?"
Turenne bore down Conde, who had gained every campaign; and the court of Spain, wearied with reverses, made overtures of peace, which was gladly accepted by the French.
Recollect also that mr Heatherstone, and his brother in law, Sir Ashley Cooper, have done the king much more service than you ever have or can do.
I trust that the daughter will often grace our court."
At all events, Edward, recollect you do not know what are the intentions of mr Heatherstone; wait and see what he proffers first."
After the peace and the pardon of Conde by the French king, the armies were disbanded, and the three adventurers were free.
"He has, indeed," replied Edward.
It is now seven years since you quitted the forest, and in your letters to mr Heatherstone you made no remark upon what had passed between you and Patience.
When he entered the room, he found himself in the arms of Humphrey, who had arrived with the messenger.
We may as well here inform the reader that the advice was immediately acted upon, and that Chaloner and Grenville recovered all their estates at about five years' purchase.
"Alice, that's Edward!" said Edith, so loud, as to be heard by the king, and all near him.
Humphrey must take the first place.
Patience colored up and trembled when Edward first saw her.
His love of farming continued.
Tell him that I have just made known to you his noble and disinterested conduct."
He then married Clara Ratcliffe, who has not appeared lately on the scene, owing to her having been, about two years before the Restoration, claimed by an elderly relation, who lived in the country, and whose infirm state of health did not permit him to quit the house.
Do you recognize them?"
"Any more?"
"You are here highly spoken of," said the prince, "for so young a man. So you were at the affair of Worcester?
But eventually Conde was beaten back by the superior force of Turenne; and, not receiving the assistance he expected from the Spaniards, he fell back to the frontiers of Champagne.
"That is to say, because all you wish for, your property and a woman you love, are offered you in one lot, you will not accept them; they must be divided, and handed over to you in two!" said Alice, smiling.
You were at the wars; it was possible that you might, or might not return.
"Very true, my dear sister; perhaps that is the reason that the New Forest has had such charms for me."
"I will go with you.
"Yes, it was a youthful passion, I grant; but recollect nothing came of it, and years have passed away.
The court was now one continual scene of fetes and gayety.
Edward was standing, with many others of the suit, behind the chair of the king, amusing himself with the presentations as they took place, and waiting for the arrival of his sisters-Chaloner and Grenville were not with him, they had obtained leave to go into the country, for the object we have before referred to-when his eyes caught, advancing toward the king, mr Heatherstone, who led his daughter, Patience.
"Is it possible," thought Edward, "that these can be the two girls in russet gowns, that I left at the cottage?
"Put not your trust in princes, brother," replied Alice.
"Yes," replied Grenville, "there can be no doubt of that; but will they, think you, recognize us?"
Edward gave him a large farm, rent free; and in a few years Humphrey saved up sufficient to purchase a property for himself.
Let her father but give me her, and Arnwood will be but a trifle in addition!"
Have we not been attached from our youth?"
Patience made no reply, but passed on; and, soon afterward, Edward lost sight of her in the crowd.
"A few days back.
"You have to choose between two generals, both great in the art of war-Conde and Turenne.
He left his property to Clara, about a year after her marriage to Humphrey.
Edward remained at court several days.
The Prince of Conde now had the command of the Spanish forces in the Netherlands; and Edward, with his friends, followed his fortunes, and gained his good will: they were rapidly promoted.
"Nothing.
"At Arnwood.
"No; I was about to call upon him, but I wanted to see you first."
"Conde is my favorite, and he will soon be opposed to this truculent and dishonest court, who have kept me here as an instrument to accomplish their own wishes, but who have never intended to keep their promises, and place me on the English throne.
"Look, Edward," said Chaloner, "at those lovely girls at yon window.
They are wholly unshackled, further than that you are to repay by installments the money expended in the building of the house.
"Much you know about women," replied Edith.
"Well," replied Edward, "since it is to be so, let us sit down and talk over the matter.
On his arrival at Paris, he was kindly received by King Charles, who promised to assist his views in joining the army.
On the fifteenth of May, sixteen sixty, the news arrived that Charles had been proclaimed king on the eighth, and a large body of gentlemen went to invite him over.
Edward, on mr Heatherstone repeating to him his intentions relative to Arnwood, expressed his sense of that gentleman's conduct, simply adding-
"It may be so, Edith," replied Humphrey.
The next day they were at the prince's levee, and introduced by Edward.
He is not going to surrender my property and make me a present of the house."
"Well, my view is different," replied Edith.
Those who hold the property think so too, and so far it is fortunate.
"Which would your majesty recommend me to follow?" inquired Edward.
That they had not perceived him was evident; indeed her eyes were not raised once, from the natural timidity felt by a young woman in the presence of royalty. Edward half concealed himself behind one of his companions that he might gaze upon her without reserve.
They took their leave of the prince, who thanked them for their long and meritorious services; and they then hastened to King Charles, who had left Spain and come to the Low Countries.
But our young readers will not be content if they do not hear some particulars about the other personages who have appeared in our little history.
"You may think me impetuous, sir, but I trust you will believe me grateful."
"We must go now, and I will not fail to communicate it to them this very night."
We pass over the joy of this meeting after so many years' absence, and the pleasure which it gave to Edward to find his sisters grown such accomplished and elegant young women.
Edward, who but rarely heard from Humphrey, was now anxious to quit the army and go to the king, who was in Spain; but to leave his colors, while things were adverse, was impossible.
On the following day a drawing room was to be held, and Edward's sisters were to be presented.
Accepting the property from mr Heatherstone is receiving a favor were it given as a marriage portion with his daughter.
"As for his daughter, Edward, you have yet to 'win her and wear her,' as the saying is.
This I am empowered to state to you, and I think you will allow that mr Heatherstone has fully acted up to what he stated were his views when he first obtained a grant of the property."
Alice and Edith rose and waved their handkerchiefs, but they were soon obliged to cease, and put them to their eyes.
I fear, however, Humphrey, that you are right and Edith wrong as regards his daughter."
He wrote a letter to the intendant, thanking him for his kind feelings and intentions toward him, and he trusted that he might one day have the pleasure of seeing him again.
About a year after the Restoration, there was a fete at Hampton Court, given in honor of three marriages taking place-Edward Beverley to Patience Heatherstone, Chaloner to Alice, and Grenville to Edith; and, as his majesty himself said, as he gave away the brides, "Could loyalty be better rewarded?"
There was the same pensive, sweet expression in her face, which had altered little; but the beautiful rounded arms, the symmetrical fall of the shoulders, and the proportion of the whole figure was a surprise to him; and Edward, in his own mind, agreed that she might well be the reigning toast of the day.
Humphrey has charge of it until it is ascertained to whom it is to belong."
What must he think of my not having called upon him!"
"Indeed!
That much of their property has been taken away and put into other hands, I know; and probably they expect it will be restored upon their application to the king.
"It belongs to mr Heatherstone, does it not?" replied Edward.
"Your advice is good, my dear Alice, and I will be guided by it," replied Edward.
"With respect to the conditions upon which you are to possess Arnwood," said Humphrey, "I can inform you what they are.
Her father will resign the property to you as yours by right, but you have no property in his daughter, and I suspect that she will not be quite so easily handed over to you."
Edward did not refer to the past for some time after they had renewed their acquaintance.
"No less than one with whom you were formerly well acquainted, Edward-Patience Heatherstone."
I acknowledge his generosity, but I do not acknowledge his right of possession.
What is it you fear?"
Nothing is so painful to the human mind as a great and sudden change.
Life is obstinate and clings closest where it is most hated.
When I recovered I found myself surrounded by the people of the inn; their countenances expressed a breathless terror, but the horror of others appeared only as a mockery, a shadow of the feelings that oppressed me.
If I looked up, I saw scenes which were familiar to me in my happier time and which I had contemplated but the day before in the company of her who was now but a shadow and a recollection.
I was anxious and watchful, while my right hand grasped a pistol which was hidden in my bosom; every sound terrified me, but I resolved that I would sell my life dearly and not shrink from the conflict until my own life or that of my adversary was extinguished.
A grin was on the face of the monster; he seemed to jeer, as with his fiendish finger he pointed towards the corpse of my wife.
The magistrate appeared at first perfectly incredulous, but as I continued he became more attentive and interested; I saw him sometimes shudder with horror; at others a lively surprise, unmingled with disbelief, was painted on his countenance.
The windows of the room had before been darkened, and I felt a kind of panic on seeing the pale yellow light of the moon illuminate the chamber.
Why did I not then expire!
I know not; I lost sensation, and chains and darkness were the only objects that pressed upon me.
A fiend had snatched from me every hope of future happiness; no creature had ever been so miserable as I was; so frightful an event is single in the history of man.
Everywhere I turn I see the same figure-her bloodless arms and relaxed form flung by the murderer on its bridal bier.
What then became of me?
But to a Genevan magistrate, whose mind was occupied by far other ideas than those of devotion and heroism, this elevation of mind had much the appearance of madness.
When I had concluded my narration I said, "This is the being whom I accuse and for whose seizure and punishment I call upon you to exert your whole power.
I now related my history briefly but with firmness and precision, marking the dates with accuracy and never deviating into invective or exclamation.
For they had called me mad, and during many months, as I understood, a solitary cell had been my habitation.
After having landed, they proceeded to search the country, parties going in different directions among the woods and vines.
Who can follow an animal which can traverse the sea of ice and inhabit caves and dens where no man would venture to intrude?
"I do not doubt that he hovers near the spot which I inhabit, and if he has indeed taken refuge in the Alps, he may be hunted like the chamois and destroyed as a beast of prey.
My rage is unspeakable when I reflect that the murderer, whom I have turned loose upon society, still exists.
My own strength is exhausted, and I must tell, in a few words, what remains of my hideous narration.
There were no horses to be procured, and I must return by the lake; but the wind was unfavourable, and the rain fell in torrents.
"You are mistaken," said he.
Chapter twenty three
But I perceive your thoughts; you do not credit my narrative and do not intend to pursue my enemy with the punishment which is his desert." As I spoke, rage sparkled in my eyes; the magistrate was intimidated.
While I still hung over her in the agony of despair, I happened to look up.
Know that, one by one, my friends were snatched away; I was left desolate.
The moon had reached her summit in the heavens and was beginning to descend; the clouds swept across it swifter than the flight of the vulture and dimmed her rays, while the lake reflected the scene of the busy heavens, rendered still busier by the restless waves that were beginning to rise.
For a moment only did I lose recollection; I fell senseless on the ground.
But why should I dwell upon the incidents that followed this last overwhelming event?
I was bewildered, in a cloud of wonder and horror.
The story is too connected to be mistaken for a dream, and I have no motive for falsehood." My manner as I thus addressed him was impressive but calm; I had formed in my own heart a resolution to pursue my destroyer to death, and this purpose quieted my agony and for an interval reconciled me to life.
Tears streamed from my eyes.
As I heard it, the whole truth rushed into my mind, my arms dropped, the motion of every muscle and fibre was suspended; I could feel the blood trickling in my veins and tingling in the extremities of my limbs.
The magistrate listened to me with attention and kindness.
"That cannot be; but all that I can say will be of little avail.
It was eight o'clock when we landed; we walked for a short time on the shore, enjoying the transitory light, and then retired to the inn and contemplated the lovely scene of waters, woods, and mountains, obscured in darkness, yet still displaying their black outlines.
Melancholy followed, but by degrees I gained a clear conception of my miseries and situation and was then released from my prison.
He, however, answered mildly, "I would willingly afford you every aid in your pursuit, but the creature of whom you speak appears to have powers which would put all my exertions to defiance.
Great God!
The report of the pistol brought a crowd into the room.
She was there, lifeless and inanimate, thrown across the bed, her head hanging down and her pale and distorted features half covered by her hair.
I had been calm during the day, but so soon as night obscured the shapes of objects, a thousand fears arose in my mind.
My father and Ernest yet lived, but the former sunk under the tidings that I bore.
However, it was hardly morning, and I might reasonably hope to arrive by night.
Cease; you know not what it is you say."
I arrived at Geneva.
It came from the room into which Elizabeth had retired.
He endeavoured to soothe me as a nurse does a child and reverted to my tale as the effects of delirium.
In this state I was carried back and placed on a bed, hardly conscious of what had happened; my eyes wandered round the room as if to seek something that I had lost.
The wind, which had fallen in the south, now rose with great violence in the west.
But I discovered no trace of him and was beginning to conjecture that some fortunate chance had intervened to prevent the execution of his menaces when suddenly I heard a shrill and dreadful scream.
"I will exert myself, and if it is in my power to seize the monster, be assured that he shall suffer punishment proportionate to his crimes.
Alas!
I pressed on, but in vain.
My beloved sister, the sickening failing of your heart felt expectations is, in prospect, more terrible to me than my own death.
Hypocritical fiend!
But this was not the time for delay; I disencumbered the dogs of their dead companion, gave them a plentiful portion of food, and after an hour's rest, which was absolutely necessary, and yet which was bitterly irksome to me, I continued my route.
Not because the way was smooth and placid as a southern sea, but because it was full of dangers and terror, because at every new incident your fortitude was to be called forth and your courage exhibited, because danger and death surrounded it, and these you were to brave and overcome.
My first resolution was to quit Geneva forever; my country, which, when I was happy and beloved, was dear to me, now, in my adversity, became hateful.
For this purpose I will preserve my life; to execute this dear revenge will I again behold the sun and tread the green herbage of earth, which otherwise should vanish from my eyes forever.
These feelings are transitory; each day of expectation delayed fills them with fear, and I almost dread a mutiny caused by this despair.
You have determined to live, and I am satisfied."
I am content to suffer alone while my sufferings shall endure; when I die, I am well satisfied that abhorrence and opprobrium should load my memory. Once my fancy was soothed with dreams of virtue, of fame, and of enjoyment.
Oh!
Did you not call this a glorious expedition?
You hate me, but your abhorrence cannot equal that with which I regard myself.
My beloved Sister,
september second
Oh!
With new courage, therefore, I pressed on, and in two days arrived at a wretched hamlet on the seashore.
Was there no injustice in this?
My present situation was one in which all voluntary thought was swallowed up and lost.
"When younger," said he, "I believed myself destined for some great enterprise.
His eloquence is forcible and touching; nor can I hear him, when he relates a pathetic incident or endeavours to move the passions of pity or love, without tears.
I attempted to speak, but the words died away on my lips.
My life, as it passed thus, was indeed hateful to me, and it was during sleep alone that I could taste joy.
Even now I cannot recollect without passion my reveries while the work was incomplete.
"Do you, then, really return?"
What do these sounds portend?
The die is cast; I have consented to return if we are not destroyed. Thus are my hopes blasted by cowardice and indecision; I come back ignorant and disappointed.
Margaret, what comment can I make on the untimely extinction of this glorious spirit?
Heaven bless you and make you so!
What can I say that will enable you to understand the depth of my sorrow?
What does it avail that I now ask thee to pardon me?
Follow me; I seek the everlasting ices of the north, where you will feel the misery of cold and frost, to which I am impassive.
To you first entering on life, to whom care is new and agony unknown, how can you understand what I have felt and still feel?
Years will pass, and you will have visitings of despair and yet be tortured by hope.
Sometimes, seized with sudden agony, he could not continue his tale; at others, his voice broken, yet piercing, uttered with difficulty the words so replete with anguish.
They insisted, therefore, that I should engage with a solemn promise that if the vessel should be freed I would instantly direct my course southwards.
During the day I was sustained and inspirited by the hope of night, for in sleep I saw my friends, my wife, and my beloved country; again I saw the benevolent countenance of my father, heard the silver tones of my Elizabeth's voice, and beheld Clerval enjoying health and youth.
At such moments vengeance, that burned within me, died in my heart, and I pursued my path towards the destruction of the daemon more as a task enjoined by heaven, as the mechanical impulse of some power of which I was unconscious, than as the ardent desire of my soul.
His sentence was pronounced, and I could only grieve and be patient.
Nay, then I was not miserable.
It is midnight; the breeze blows fairly, and the watch on deck scarcely stir.
No guilt, no mischief, no malignity, no misery, can be found comparable to mine.
And do I dare to ask of you to undertake my pilgrimage, to endure the hardships that I have undergone? No; I am not so selfish.
One inscription that he left was in these words: "Prepare!
When I first sought it, it was the love of virtue, the feelings of happiness and affection with which my whole being overflowed, that I wished to be participated.
I inquired of the inhabitants concerning the fiend and gained accurate information.
When he heard the sound of my approach, he ceased to utter exclamations of grief and horror and sprung towards the window.
Covered with ice, it was only to be distinguished from land by its superior wildness and ruggedness.
All that I should express would be inadequate and feeble.
You have read this strange and terrific story, Margaret; and do you not feel your blood congeal with horror, like that which even now curdles mine?
I shut my eyes involuntarily and endeavoured to recollect what were my duties with regard to this destroyer.
"Farewell!
We are still surrounded by mountains of ice, still in imminent danger of being crushed in their conflict.
When actuated by selfish and vicious motives, I asked you to undertake my unfinished work, and I renew this request now, when I am only induced by reason and virtue.
I followed, when I could, the courses of the rivers; but the daemon generally avoided these, as it was here that the population of the country chiefly collected.
Often, when wearied by a toilsome march, I persuaded myself that I was dreaming until night should come and that I should then enjoy reality in the arms of my dearest friends.
Peace, peace!
But the consideration of these points, and the well balancing of what you may esteem your duties, I leave to you; my judgment and ideas are already disturbed by the near approach of death.
"Or whither does your senseless curiosity lead you?
Do not return to your families with the stigma of disgrace marked on your brows.
But I journey towards England, and I may there find consolation.
Sometimes, indeed, he left marks in writing on the barks of the trees or cut in stone that guided me and instigated my fury.
Despair had indeed almost secured her prey, and I should soon have sunk beneath this misery.
Evil thenceforth became my good.
"They shout," I said, "because they will soon return to England."
He," he continued, pointing to the corpse, "he suffered not in the consummation of the deed.
Suddenly the broad disk of the moon arose and shone full upon his ghastly and distorted shape as he fled with more than mortal speed.
Neither yours nor any man's death is needed to consummate the series of my being and accomplish that which must be done, but it requires my own.
In the meantime he told me that my friend had certainly not many hours to live.
Be steady to your purposes and firm as a rock.
I have lost my hopes of utility and glory; I have lost my friend.
Great God! what a scene has just taken place!
"Wretch!" I said.
I hesitated before I answered, when Frankenstein, who had at first been silent, and indeed appeared hardly to have force enough to attend, now roused himself; his eyes sparkled, and his cheeks flushed with momentary vigour.
The only joy that he can now know will be when he composes his shattered spirit to peace and death.
My unfortunate guest regards me with the tenderest compassion.
september seventh
I am weak, but surely the spirits who assist my vengeance will endow me with sufficient strength." Saying this, he endeavoured to spring from the bed, but the exertion was too great for him; he fell back and fainted.
"After the murder of Clerval I returned to Switzerland, heart broken and overcome.
Yet I fear such will be my fate; the men, unsupported by ideas of glory and honour, can never willingly continue to endure their present hardships.
I darted towards the spot from which the sound proceeded, but the devil eluded my grasp.
Sometimes the peasants, scared by this horrid apparition, informed me of his path; sometimes he himself, who feared that if I lost all trace of him I should despair and die, left some mark to guide me.
"Do you think that I was then dead to agony and remorse?
Walton, in continuation.
And what, Margaret, will be the state of your mind?
The Greeks wept for joy when they beheld the Mediterranean from the hills of Asia, and hailed with rapture the boundary of their toils.
I have longed for a friend; I have sought one who would sympathize with and love me.
"You, who call Frankenstein your friend, seem to have a knowledge of my crimes and his misfortunes.
I had not despaired, nor had I yet conceived the idea of returning if set free.
I hoped to induce you to grant me a boat with which I could pursue my enemy.
My feelings are profound, but I possessed a coolness of judgment that fitted me for illustrious achievements.
At length I gathered resolution to address him in a pause of the tempest of his passion.
Thus has a week passed away, while I have listened to the strangest tale that ever imagination formed.
O blessed sleep!
"And do you dream?" said the daemon.
I shall die.
My courage and perseverance were invigorated by these scoffing words; I resolved not to fail in my purpose, and calling on heaven to support me, I continued with unabated fervour to traverse immense deserts, until the ocean appeared at a distance and formed the utmost boundary of the horizon.
"My reign is not yet over"--these words were legible in one of these inscriptions-"you live, and my power is complete.
Your toils only begin; wrap yourself in furs and provide food, for we shall soon enter upon a journey where your sufferings will satisfy my everlasting hatred."
Our conversations are not always confined to his own history and misfortunes.
Chapter twenty four
I am interrupted.
september ninth, the ice began to move, and roarings like thunder were heard at a distance as the islands split and cracked in every direction.
The snows descended on my head, and I saw the print of his huge step on the white plain.
On every point of general literature he displays unbounded knowledge and a quick and piercing apprehension.
I recollected my threat and resolved that it should be accomplished.
How unlike it was to the blue seasons of the south!
As I still pursued my journey to the northward, the snows thickened and the cold increased in a degree almost too severe to support.
They were forever ardent and craving; still I desired love and fellowship, and I was still spurned.
Yet I seek not a fellow feeling in my misery.
In other places human beings were seldom seen, and I generally subsisted on the wild animals that crossed my path.
Farewell, Walton!
Oh!
I did not weep, but I knelt down and with a full heart thanked my guiding spirit for conducting me in safety to the place where I hoped, notwithstanding my adversary's gibe, to meet and grapple with him.
I trod heaven in my thoughts, now exulting in my powers, now burning with the idea of their effects.
But now that virtue has become to me a shadow, and that happiness and affection are turned into bitter and loathing despair, in what should I seek for sympathy?
Once I falsely hoped to meet with beings who, pardoning my outward form, would love me for the excellent qualities which I was capable of unfolding.
Everything was silent except the leaves of the trees, which were gently agitated by the wind; the night was nearly dark, and the scene would have been solemn and affecting even to an uninterested observer.
About half an hour afterwards he attempted again to speak but was unable; he pressed my hand feebly, and his eyes closed forever, while the irradiation of a gentle smile passed away from his lips.
I shall ascend my funeral pile triumphantly and exult in the agony of the torturing flames.
The rivers were covered with ice, and no fish could be procured; and thus I was cut off from my chief article of maintenance.
My duties towards the beings of my own species had greater claims to my attention because they included a greater proportion of happiness or misery.
Over him hung a form which I cannot find words to describe-gigantic in stature, yet uncouth and distorted in its proportions.
I pursued him, and for many months this has been my task.
I mentioned in my last letter the fears I entertained of a mutiny. This morning, as I sat watching the wan countenance of my friend-his eyes half closed and his limbs hanging listlessly-I was roused by half a dozen of the sailors, who demanded admission into the cabin.
Even now my blood boils at the recollection of this injustice.
I entered it and approached the tomb which marked their graves.
Some weeks before this period I had procured a sledge and dogs and thus traversed the snows with inconceivable speed.
Polluted by crimes and torn by the bitterest remorse, where can I find rest but in death?
My work is nearly complete.
His soul is as hellish as his form, full of treachery and fiend like malice.
Frankenstein, who was dozing, awoke and asked the cause of the tumult.
I had no conception that vessels ever came so far north and was astounded at the sight.
A gigantic monster, they said, had arrived the night before, armed with a gun and many pistols, putting to flight the inhabitants of a solitary cottage through fear of his terrific appearance.
Even where the affections are not strongly moved by any superior excellence, the companions of our childhood always possess a certain power over our minds which hardly any later friend can obtain.
What agonizing fondness did I feel for them!
His voice became fainter as he spoke, and at length, exhausted by his effort, he sank into silence.
"That he should live to be an instrument of mischief disturbs me; in other respects, this hour, when I momentarily expect my release, is the only happy one which I have enjoyed for several years.
I was nourished with high thoughts of honour and devotion.
Never will I give up my search until he or I perish; and then with what ecstasy shall I join my Elizabeth and my departed friends, who even now prepare for me the reward of my tedious toil and horrible pilgrimage!
Sometimes I endeavoured to gain from Frankenstein the particulars of his creature's formation, but on this point he was impenetrable.
It is past; I am returning to England.
But you have a husband and lovely children; you may be happy.
Oh!
september twelfth
As he hung over the coffin, his face was concealed by long locks of ragged hair; but one vast hand was extended, in colour and apparent texture like that of a mummy.
There is something terribly appalling in our situation, yet my courage and hopes do not desert me.
Urged thus far, I had no choice but to adapt my nature to an element which I had willingly chosen.
Do not think that I shall be slow to perform this sacrifice.
Some years ago, when the images which this world affords first opened upon me, when I felt the cheering warmth of summer and heard the rustling of the leaves and the warbling of the birds, and these were all to me, I should have wept to die; now it is my only consolation.
The deep grief which this scene had at first excited quickly gave way to rage and despair.
You throw a torch into a pile of buildings, and when they are consumed, you sit among the ruins and lament the fall.
"But it is true that I am a wretch.
I dare not ask you to do what I think right, for I may still be misled by passion.
He endeavours to fill me with hope and talks as if life were a possession which he valued.
september fifth
"Oh, it is not thus-not thus," interrupted the being.
Deprived of this respite, I should have sunk under my hardships.
You took me on board when my vigour was exhausted, and I should soon have sunk under my multiplied hardships into a death which I still dread, for my task is unfulfilled.
"It is well that you come here to whine over the desolation that you have made.
If I do, swear to me, Walton, that he shall not escape, that you will seek him and satisfy my vengeance in his death.
I sat by his bed, watching him; his eyes were closed, and I thought he slept; but presently he called to me in a feeble voice, and bidding me come near, said, "Alas!
"Yet such must be the impression conveyed to you by what appears to be the purport of my actions.
The monster continued to utter wild and incoherent self reproaches.
As night approached I found myself at the entrance of the cemetery where William, Elizabeth, and my father reposed.
Frankenstein has daily declined in health; a feverish fire still glimmers in his eyes, but he is exhausted, and when suddenly roused to any exertion, he speedily sinks again into apparent lifelessness.
What his feelings were whom I pursued I cannot know.
I have murdered the lovely and the helpless; I have strangled the innocent as they slept and grasped to death his throat who never injured me or any other living thing.
Oh!
A scene has just passed of such uncommon interest that, although it is highly probable that these papers may never reach you, yet I cannot forbear recording it.
A sister or a brother can never, unless indeed such symptoms have been shown early, suspect the other of fraud or false dealing, when another friend, however strongly he may be attached, may, in spite of himself, be contemplated with suspicion.
"Your repentance," I said, "is now superfluous.
The completion of my demoniacal design became an insatiable passion.
In a fit of enthusiastic madness I created a rational creature and was bound towards him to assure, as far as was in my power, his happiness and well-being.
Are you, then, so easily turned from your design?
My spirit will sleep in peace, or if it thinks, it will not surely think thus. Farewell."
I quickly destroyed part of my sledge to construct oars, and by these means was enabled, with infinite fatigue, to move my ice raft in the direction of your ship.
Again there is a sound as of a human voice, but hoarser; it comes from the cabin where the remains of Frankenstein still lie.
I know not whether the fiend possessed the same advantages, but I found that, as before I had daily lost ground in the pursuit, I now gained on him, so much so that when I first saw the ocean he was but one day's journey in advance, and I hoped to intercept him before he should reach the beach.
I hardly know whether I shall have the power to detail it; yet the tale which I have recorded would be incomplete without this final and wonderful catastrophe.
I spoke; I told them to retire and consider of what had been said, that I would not lead them farther north if they strenuously desired the contrary, but that I hoped that, with reflection, their courage would return.
For while I destroyed his hopes, I did not satisfy my own desires.
No sympathy may I ever find.
I am surrounded by mountains of ice which admit of no escape and threaten every moment to crush my vessel.
They entered, and their leader addressed me.
"Since you have preserved my narration," said he, "I would not that a mutilated one should go down to posterity."
Once, after the poor animals that conveyed me had with incredible toil gained the summit of a sloping ice mountain, and one, sinking under his fatigue, died, I viewed the expanse before me with anguish, when suddenly my eye caught a dark speck upon the dusky plain.
I must arise and examine. Good night, my sister.
He seems to feel his own worth and the greatness of his fall.
I pitied Frankenstein; my pity amounted to horror; I abhorred myself.
Scoffing devil!
This ice is not made of such stuff as your hearts may be; it is mutable and cannot withstand you if you say that it shall not.
If thou wert yet alive and yet cherished a desire of revenge against me, it would be better satiated in my life than in my destruction.
So Twelve O'Clock, who was the youngest of the Hours, took him to the stables and showed him the little room in the turret that he was to have.
Now he would be sent to find a white craw's feather or a spray of yellow bluebells; now he was ordered to look for a square wheel or a glass of dry water.
After a week of almost constant progress (for the King was so anxious to see his beloved daughter that he would hardly give the cavalcade time to rest), they came to the frontiers of Princess Zenza's kingdom.
Farther on, the lad encountered Tilda's father, the unhappy King, and delivered his message.
The monstrous dragon with Tilda in his claws was just a little smoky speck far down the southern sky.
Tilda, the kitchen maid, was as sweet and pretty as she was kind and good.
So Bobo thanked Father Time, and at noon, Twelve O'Clock placed him behind him on the white charger, and hurried away.
"A half hour," he roared.
Suddenly Bobo noticed a strange little door in the bark of a great lonely tree, and, opening this door, he discovered a little cupboard in which were a pair of wooden shoes.
Only one fragment of him, a tiny bit of a claw, was ever found.
But Bobo had to answer "No," and the old man wandered on again.
All would have been lost had not a brave little kitchen maid named Tilda volunteered to go.
For the dragon had blown up.
An old man with a white beard, accompanied by eleven young men, whom Bobo judged, from their expressions, to be brothers,--stood by the gate to see the horseman ride away.
As she came down the steps of the garden terrace, the Princess looked up at the castle clock to see how late she was, and said to her lady in waiting,--
Of the man who had lost his temper, Bobo found no sign.
Every now and then he would stop a passer by and ask him if he had seen a lost half hour.
Now it came to pass that one morning Princess Zenza, the ruler of the land, happened to pass by the cottage and heard Bobo being given a terrible tongue lashing.
So Bobo left the proud city of Zizz, and once again rode over the hills and far away.
I am Father Time himself, and these are my twelve sons, the Hours.
For two days Bobo walked inland toward the great mountain.
He found himself in a beautiful garden, lying between the castle walls and the rising slopes of a great mountain.
But they knew in their hearts that they were too late, and that poor Tilda had given herself to the dragon.
And so, in less time than it takes to tell about it, poor simpleton Bobo was made ready for his journey.
Find her, worthy Bobo, and an immense reward will be yours."
One pleasant mid summer morning, when Bobo had been nearly a year at the castle, Princess Zenza overslept half an hour and did not come down to breakfast at the usual time.
There was a perfectly terrific bang! as if a million balloons had blown up all at once.
Don't try to peek at it or open the box until the right time has come.
His faithful white horse died, and he continued his way on foot.
Hardly were the words out of her mouth, when the town bell struck twice, solemnly and sadly.
Drink this cup of water to the last drop." And the youth handed the simpleton a silver cup full to the brim of clear shining water.
And being no longer a simpleton, he remembered the man who had lost his reputation, the man who had lost his temper, and the king whose daughter had been stolen by the fairies.
And he told how the Princess herself had commanded him to seek the half hour through the world, and promised to bring Tilda a splendid present when he returned.
The first person whom he thus questioned was an old man who was wandering down the high road that leads from the Kingdom of the East to the Kingdom of the West.
When the dawn broke, all sign of the ship had disappeared.
Three days ago a terrible dragon alighted in the gardens of the palace and sent word to Princess Zenza that if within three days she did not provide him with someone brave enough to go home with him and cook his meals and keep his cavern tidy, he would burn our fields with his fiery breath.
He took such good care of the great black horses of the Hours of the Night, and the white horses of the Hours of the Day, that they were never more proud and strong, nor their coats smoother and more gleaming.
Courtiers, footmen, lackeys, turnspits even, were forever sending him off on ridiculous errands.
Alas!"
"Yes!
Every day, one after the other, they ride for an hour round the whole wide world.
If you do, the half hour will flyaway and disappear forever."
Then Tilda's father took her in his arms, and told her that she was a real princess. The Grand Cross of the Order of the Black Cat was conferred upon Bobo by Princess Zenza, who also asked his pardon for having treated him so shabbily.
To this Bobo willingly agreed.
The joy of the monarch knew no bounds, and Bobo, the one-time simpleton, became on the spot Lord Bobo of the Sapphire Hills, Marquis of the Mountains of the Moon, Prince of the Valley of Golden Apples, and Lord Seneschal of the proud City of Zizz-in a word, the greatest nobleman in all Fairyland.
As for the man who lost his temper, tell him that it is to be found in the grass by the roadside close by the spot where you first met him.
"I, too, have a gift for thee.
At this idea of finding a lost half hour, the Princess laughed, and found herself echoed by the company.
The lost half hour may be there."
"Quick!
Something like a winged white flame escaped from it, and flew hissing through the air to the sun
"O sir," said the peasant woman, "evil days have fallen upon our unhappy kingdom.
"What is the matter, my good woman?" said the King.
"Please, Your Highness, perhaps I can find it."
"What, off again?" said the little kitchen maid.
As for the sun itself, turning round like a cartwheel and hissing like ten thousand rockets, it rolled back along the sky to the east.
Plucking up courage, Bobo came forward, fell on his knee before the old man, and told his story.
On the second morning of his journey, he happened to see far ahead of him on the highway the unfortunate aged man who had lost his reputation. To him, therefore, Bobo repeated the counsel of Father Time, and sent him hurrying home to his neighbors' houses.
"You have served faithfully and well," said Father Time.
So Bobo went aboard the ship, and sailed out upon the dark sea.
In the grass by the roadside, however, he did find the lost temper-a queer sort of affair like a melon of fiery red glass all stuck over with uneven spines and brittle thorns.
Bobo ran down into the field and stood beside Tilda, ready to defend her to the end.
It is for her that we are mourning.
He had arrived half an hour late, but he could have that half hour back again!
I've lost my temper.
Bobo, with great goodness of heart, took along this extraordinary object, in the hope of finding its angry possessor.
"The Princess has lost a half hour and I am going in search of it," said Bobo, proudly.
On hearing her story, it occurred to the Princess that so silly a lad might amuse her; so she gave the mother a golden florin, and took poor silly Bobo with her to be her page.
Though pounded and battered by the foaming waves, the simpleton at length managed to reach the beach, and took refuge in a crevice of the cliff during the stormy night.
Yes!" cried the courtiers.
When she did get up, she found her court waiting for her in the castle gardens.
At these words, Bobo, who was in attendance, pricked up his ears and said,--
Would you mind asking, as you go through the world, for news of my little daughter?" (Here the poor old King took out a great green handkerchief and wiped his eyes.) "She was stolen by the fairies on midsummer eve fifteen years ago.
It's about the size of a large melon and has sharp little points."
Now this water was the water of wisdom, and when Bobo had drunk it, he was no longer a simpleton.
Once upon a time there was an old widow woman who had three sons: the first two were clever enough, but the third, Bobo by name, was little better than a silly simpleton.
Things should be exactly as they were half an hour before.
Suddenly Bobo thought of the half hour.
He opened the cover of the ebony box.
We may save her yet."
There was not a house, a road, or a path to be seen.
She was said to be the daughter of an old crane who had come to the castle one day, asking for help.
"Tell the first," said Father Time, "that his reputation has been broken into a thousand pieces which have been picked up by his neighbors and carried home.
But never a sign of the lost half hour did he find, although he asked thousands of people.
Another day the simpleton encountered a tall, dark, fierce kind of fellow, who answered his polite question with a scream of rage.
The dragon roared again.
When the year was up, Bobo again sought out Father Time.
And thus for a year Bobo served Father Time and his sons.
"Dear me-why, I've lost half an hour this morning!"
Strange to say, not a living creature was to be seen, and though there were lights in the castle, there was not even a warder at the gate.
Suddenly a great booming bell struck seven o'clock; Bobo began to hear voices and sounds; and then, before the humming of the bell had died away, a youth mounted on a splendid black horse dashed at lightning speed out of the castle and disappeared in the wood.
"Here is your reward." And, with these words, he placed in Bobo's hands a small square casket made of ebony.
"No," said the sailors, "but we are going to the Isles of Iron; suppose you go with us.
"Shall we send Bobo in search of the lost half hour?" said the Princess to the courtiers.
"The half hour lies inside.
And, sure enough, there was brave little Tilda standing alone in a great field waiting for the dragon to come and take her away. Lumbering heavily along like a monstrous turtle, and snorting blue smoke, the dragon was advancing toward her.
Suddenly, angered by the sight of Bobo and his drawn sword, he roared angrily, but continued to approach. Bobo struck at him with his sword.
All his mother's scoldings and beatings-and she smacked the poor lad soundly a dozen times a day-did him no good whatever.
As for the missing daughter, she is the kitchen maid in Princess Zenza's palace, who is known as Tilda."
"A lost half hour?" said the old man.
Answer me, you silly, have you seen a lost temper anywhere?
"A lost half hour?" said the King.
Bobo arrived at twilight.
"Good bye, Bobo," cried the assembled courtiers, who were almost beside themselves with laughter at the simpleton and his errand.
In spite of his mad dash, Bobo, who had spurred on ahead, arrived exactly half an hour late.
"I've lost something much more serious, I've lost my reputation.
Then, having got together a magnificent cohort of dukes, earls, and counts, all in splendid silks, and soldiers in shining armor, the delighted King rode off to claim his missing daughter from Princess Zenza.
It is almost two now.
"I'll give him my old hat," said another.
Yet who, I ask you, would be housekeeper for a dragon? Suppose he did n't like the puddings you made for him-why, he might eat you up!
If he can persuade his neighbors to give them up, he should be able to piece together a pretty good reputation again.
The lost temper had finished him.
So fast they flew that Bobo, who was holding the ebony casket close against his heart, was in great danger of falling off.
And so it proved.
Princess Zenza and her court stood by wringing their jeweled hands.
Seven O'clock has just ridden forth.
So Bobo obediently let the shoes guide him.
THE LOST HALF HOUR
This Bobo gave readily.
On the steps of one of the cottages sat an old woman, all alone and weeping with all her might.
So on they rode, the harnesses jingling, the bridle bells ringing, and the breastplates of the armed men shining in the sun
"No, I have n't seen your half hour; I would n't tell you if I had; what's more, I don't want to see it.
It was very dignified and wore tortoise shell glasses."
Now just as the dragon's mouth was its widest, Bobo who had been searching his pockets desperately, hurled into it the lost temper.
The blade broke upon his steely scales.
Strange to say, black mourning banners hung from the trees, and every door in the first village which the travelers saw was likewise hung with black streamers.
Above the shoes was a card, saying simply,--
Yes, you shall have the lost half hour, but you must look after my sons' horses for the space of a whole year."
"Bobo shall look for the lost half hour."
So Bobo rode over the hills and far away.
This only means that in his life he is an artist.
His Broadbent is as wonderful a figure as his George Bernard Shaw.
In Shaw's plays the characters are less representative of vices or passions than those of Moliere, and more representative of class, profession, or sect.
He has studied with his own eyes the swollen bellied pretences of preachers and poets and rich men and lovers and politicians, and he has derided them as they have never been derided on the English stage before.
His critics often accuse him, in regard to the invention of the Shaw myth, of having designed a poster rather than painted a portrait.
Even his bitterness is never venomous, however.
Certainly, from the time of Aristophanes onwards, comedy has again and again been a vehicle of opinions as well as a branch of natural history.
That view, I imagine, is seldom found nowadays, but even now many people do not realize that humour, and not wit, is the ruling characteristic of mr Shaw's plays.
And mr Shaw always hastens to agree with those who declare he is an advertiser in an age of advertisement.
He is not content with witty conversation about life, as Wilde was: he has an actual comic vision of human society.
In the opinion of many people, it seemed as if the Allies were fighting against a combination composed of Germany, Austria Hungary, Turkey, and mr Shaw.
You blame me for having declared myself to be the most remarkable man of my time.
One suspects that there is as much fun as commerce in mr Shaw's advertisement.
But this is only the Billingsgate of our exasperation.
In reality I am simply a very careful writer of natural history." One is bound to contradict him.
This may be sometimes actually a virtue in his comedy.
It is this that has caused all the trouble about mr Shaw's writings on the war.
There is a similar falsification in the same play in the characterization of the newspaper man who is present at Dubedat's death and immediately afterwards is anxious to interview the widow.
If I were to give up advertising, my business would immediately begin to fall off.
His humour, it is true, is not the sympathetic humour of Elia or Dickens; but then neither was Moliere's.
Nine people out of ten harp on mr Shaw's errors.
It contains, it must be confessed, a great deal that is not new to English readers, but then so do all books about mr Shaw.
mr Shaw was at one time commonly regarded as a wit of the school of Oscar Wilde.
mr Shaw came for a short time recently to be regarded less as an author than as an incident in the European War.
Amen, Amen," these sentences are no more natural or naturalistic than the death bed utterances in one of mr g r
Probably he was doomed to be a figure just as dr Johnson was.
He has succeeded in interesting us largely by inventing himself as a public figure, as Oscar Wilde and Stevenson did before him.
Sims's ballads.
He does not labour to be witty, nor does he play upon words....
Or, rather, when he is presenting a queer fizzing mixture of human nature and his opinions about it.
In Shaw's work we find few studied jests, few epigrams even, except those which are the necessary outcome of the characters and the situations.
On the contrary, I must do it more than ever.
The mistake his depreciators make, however, is in thinking that his story ends here.
Stop advertising myself!
He does not hesitate to wound and he does not hesitate to misunderstand, but he is free from malice.
He has brought them all into a Palace of Truth, where they have revealed themselves with an unaccustomed and startling frankness.
mr
This is not to disparage mr Shaw's contributions to the discussion of politics.
He is something of a natural peacock. He is in the line of all those tramps and stage Irishmen who have gone through! life with so fine a swagger of words.
mr Shaw's gift of infuriating people is unfailing.
He has succeeded in the mere business of interesting us beyond any other writer of his time.
"Do you think," he asks, "she would give me a few words on 'How it Feels to be a Widow?' Rather a good title for an article, isn't it?" These sentences are bad because into an atmosphere of more or less naturalistic comedy they simply introduce a farcical exaggeration of mr Shaw's opinion of the incompetence and impudence of journalists.
He sees men and women too frequently in the refracting shallows of theories.
It is like a grin in church, a laugh at a marriage service.
He has derided them with both an artistic and a moral energy.
But, compared with the degree of reality in his characterization, the proportion of unreality is not overwhelming.
He sees current history from the absolutely opposite point of view, say, to the lyric poet.
There is a solid house if you like, but every wall is still plastered with their advertisements.
"When I present true human nature," he observes in one of the many passages in which he justifies himself, "the audience thinks it is being made fun of.
He has done this sometimes with all the exuberance of mirth, sometimes with all the bitterness of a satirist.
"Moliere and Shaw," as he puts it with quaint seriousness, "appear to be unaware of what a father is, what a father is worth."
His joy and his misery before the ludicrous spectacle of human life are his own, and his expression of them is his own.
mr Shaw is not a bore, whatever else he may be.
He is a doctrinaire, and his characters are often comic statements of his doctrines rather than the reflections of men and women.
Look at Pears's Soap.
He has gone about, like a pickpocket of illusions, from the world of literature to the world of morals, and from the world of morals to the world of politics, and, everywhere he has gone, an innumerable growl has followed him.
The true things it contains, however, make it worth reading.
Comedy, as well as tragedy, must create some kind of illusion, and the destruction of the illusion, even for the sake of a joke, may mean the destruction of laughter.
The truth about mr Shaw is not quite so simple as that.
I do not mean that he was not intensely serious in all that he wrote about the war.
BERNARD SHAW
That contribution has been brilliant, challenging, and humane, and not more wayward than the contribution of the partisan and the sentimentalist.
And, even at this, it is not infallible.
But his seriousness is essentially the seriousness of (in the higher sense of the word) the comic artist, of the disillusionist.
Whether he could have helped becoming a figure, even if he had never painted that elongated comic portrait of himself, it is difficult to say.
But it is not always a virtue.
But the claim is an arguable one.
He has never founded a church, however, because he has always been able to laugh at his disciples as unfeelingly as at anybody else.
It is much more necessary that we should recognize that, amid all his falsifications, doctrinal and jocular, he has a genuine comic sense of character.
He is one of those rare public men who can hardly express an opinion on potato culture-and he does express an opinion on everything-without making a multitude of people shake their fists in impotent anger.
It has been enormously exaggerated.
mr Shaw's comedies are repeatedly injured by a hurried alteration of atmosphere in this manner.
He is genial beyond the majority of inveterate controversialists and propagandists.
He has courted unpopularity as other men have courted popularity.
Moliere depicts the miser, the jealous man, the misanthrope, the hypocrite; whereas Shaw depicts the bourgeois, the rebel, the capitalist, the workman, the Socialist, the doctor. A few only of these latter types are given us by Moliere.
The defence of mr Shaw, however, does not depend on any real or imaginary resemblance of his plays to Moliere's.
He saw, not the war so much as the international diplomacy that led up to the war, under the anti romantic and satirical comic vision.
Why should I not say it when I believe that it is true?
The fact is, in war time more than at any other time, people dread the vision of the satirist and the sceptic.
Not that his portraiture is always faithful.
mr Shaw often thinks he is presenting true human nature when he is merely presenting his opinions about human nature-the human nature of soldiers, of artists, of women.
"declare that Bernard Shaw does depict characters.
It is a vision of only one half of the truth, and of the half that the average man always feels to be more or less irrelevant.
On the twenty ninth of June, the bombardment from the French camp was very heavy, shells and grenades falling in every part of the city.
The packet which she placed in my possession, contained, she said, the certificates of her marriage, and of the birth and baptism of her child.
In the month of April, eighteen forty nine, Rome, as you are no doubt aware, was placed in a state of siege by the approach of the French army.
During this period I received several letters from her, all of which, though reluctant to part with them, I enclose to your address in compliance with your request.
On the thirtieth of April the first engagement took place between the French and Roman troops, and in a few days subsequently I visited several of my countrymen, at their request, to concert measures for their safety.
Your obedient servant,
Happily, the cannonading was not renewed that night, and at dawn of day she returned to her apartments, with her husband by her side.
In the afternoon of the thirtieth, I received a brief note from Miss Fuller, requesting me to call at her residence.
And in a letter which I received not long since from this lady, who was gaining the bread of an exile by teaching languages in Constantinople, she alludes with much feeling to the support afforded by Miss Fuller to the republican party in Italy.
I am, Madame, very respectfully,
Her heart and soul were in the cause for which those men had fought, and all was done that Woman could do to comfort them in their sufferings.
She received me with much kindness, and thus an acquaintance commenced.
In compliance with your request, I have the honor to state, succinctly, the circumstances connected with my acquaintance with the late Madame Ossoli, your deceased sister, during her residence in Rome.
Here, in Rome, she is still spoken of in terms of regard and endearment, and the announcement of her death was received with a degree of sorrow not often bestowed upon a foreigner, especially one of a different faith.
In the engagements which succeeded between the Roman and French troops, the wounded of the former were brought into the city, and disposed throughout the different hospitals, which were under the superintendence of several ladies of high rank, who had formed themselves into associations, the better to ensure care and attention to those unfortunate men.
After a few words more, I took my departure, the hour she named having nearly arrived.
The weather was intensely hot; her health was feeble and delicate; the dead and dying were around her in every stage of pain and horror; but she never shrank from the duty she had assumed.
I did so without delay, and found her lying on a sofa, pale and trembling, evidently much exhausted.
Great excitement naturally existed; and, in the general apprehension which pervaded all classes, that acts of personal violence and outrage would soon be committed, the foreign residents, especially, found themselves placed in an alarming situation.
Among these was to be seen every variety of age, sentiment, and condition,--striplings and blanched heads; wild, visionary enthusiasts; grave, heroic men, who, in the struggle for freedom, had ventured all, and lost all; nobles and beggars; bandits, felons and brigands.
It was not to be expected, she said, that he could escape the dangers of another night, such as the last; and therefore it was her intention to remain with him, and share his fate.
A ball went wide of the mark, did it, and picked out the window of Miser Chase's house to smash?"
"Same here," Bluff told him cheerfully; "I never feel happier than when I smell the woods and get on the trail of game.
"Here are lots of witnesses to prove it came from the other side."
Just the thought of it gives me a warm feeling around my heart."
"I wonder if he brought Uncle Felix the letter he's been expecting for some days. You see, he's got a bad attack of rheumatism; yet he says he must try to get away Down East on some very important business.
"Little he'll care about that," Bluff told him.
"We'll wait out here for you."
That glorious spell we had out on mr Mabie's ranch among the Rockies has haunted me ever since."
Frank smiled, but he did not look displeased.
I shall expect him to fulfill his offer, which you heard him make, mr Jenkins and mr Mole.
With that he turned his back upon the group and hurried to reenter his house, as though fearful lest some of the spectators might endeavor to shame him out of accepting pay from an innocent party.
There was a twinkle in his eye as he observed Frank Langdon.
"Oh, well, I noticed a lot of dodging being done," commented Frank; "and only for that all of us might have made more bull's eyes."
That's enough."
"That's a measly shame, Frank!" objected Bluff impetuously.
"I expect to have a good many orders like that, Frank, before the day is over," remarked the dealer, laughingly.
I think I'd enjoy another turn up there in the woods."
"Oh, I don't think he's quite that forgetful!" laughed Frank.
CHAPTER two
"You know he said Uncle Felix, who loaned us his houseboat to make that trip down the Mississippi to New Orleans, was expecting some important mail to day.
Bluff rubbed the side of his head at seeing this, as though wondering whether the missile that had struck him there had also been loaded in that way.
"What's Uncle Felix got to do with it?" demanded Jerry.
"And, say, he seems to be in a terrible hurry," added Jerry, beginning to show a touch of excitement himself.
Will left them shying a few snowballs at a tin can Bluff had set on a fence post.
"Yes," added Jerry, "leave it to Frank, and he'll arrange the details. Chances are we'll be dropping in to see how old Jesse Wilcox is getting on with his muskrat trapping.
"As to that, mr Chase, I will tell my father all about it as soon as he comes home from the bank.
"That's so," Bluff declared sturdily, "and we've had lots of dandy vacations in the past, too.
"I'm glad mr Benchley has such a good opinion of the outdoor chums," he remarked, "for he meant every one of you, as well as me, when he said that.
The hardware man nodded his head.
Frank and his three comrades stood talking with some of those who had gathered when the crash of broken glass, followed by angry words in the high pitched voice of the miser, drew attention to the scene of action.
Upon Frank's shoulders was laid the burden of extricating them from numerous mishaps.
"Andy Lasher hid a stone in his last ball, and expected to do Frank damage, for he shied it straight at his head; but Frank dodged, and bang went the glass!"
The sooner that window pane is replaced the better I shall be pleased.
I'm sure that is all you could expect from us."
As the four chums went away, Jerry chuckled.
But then Frank says we were in the crowd that was fighting, and it wasn't fair that mr Chase, who was an innocent party, should suffer from our fun.
Perhaps he's held Will up to tell him about something. You know Uncle Felix thinks heaps of our chum; yes, and of all the rest of us in the bargain."
"Seems to me Will's a long time coming out again," complained Jerry. "He's always so much taken up with that photography of his that any old time he's liable to remember something and go to work at it, forgetting all about his chums, who may be kicking their heels in the back yard waiting for him."
"Run in, if you feel like it, Will," Frank told him.
"What!
My father was a boy himself once, not like some people who forget that they once used to play themselves."
And do you see how he's grinning from ear to ear?
"Besides, we've had enough fun out of the business to stand a little expense like that.
"Don't be impudent to me, boy!" snapped the old miser angrily.
At that all of them laughed, as though they considered it a joke.
A BROKEN WINDOW, AND GLORIOUS NEWS
Some of the bystanders at this point tried to convince mr Chase that Frank was entirely innocent of the whole transaction; but the miser, acting on the principle that "a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush," declined to let the generous offer Frank had made slip from his grasp.
Frank, you talk with him.
I happened to dodge a ball fired from the other side, and it went through the glass."
Now what d'ye reckon can have happened?"
He knew the sort of reputation Frank had in Centerville, although the latter had not been a resident there much more than three years, having come from away off in Maine at the time his father took the local bank over.
Let him go after Andy."
"Look at him waving his hat over his head?
Between you and me, he never will be able to do it for days or weeks, he's that doubled up."
"Yes," added Jerry, as if it might be an afterthought, "and while you're about it, Will, just mention to Uncle Felix that there are four husky boys around, with considerable time to burn just now, and if he wants anybody to take that trip for him we might be coaxed into doing it, if he'd stand for expenses."
"There he comes!" exclaimed Bluff.
You here in this rowdy business, Frank Langdon!" exclaimed the other, as though more than surprised.
"He must have seen us in the fight, and that settles it.
The innocent often have to suffer for the guilty."
So I reckon we'll have to put our hands in our pockets and pay your bill, mr Benchley."
"Believe me, I'll let you boys off as lightly as I can, and not lose by it," was what he told them.
They must have fixed up a lot of ammunition that way before they tackled us."
"No, I prefer settling the account myself, and not having any trouble about it," Frank told his objecting chums.
"That was as neat a compliment as you ever had paid you, Frank, do you know it?" he asked the other.
What's bothering me is where we ought to go to spend this unexpected time that's been given to us through the fire at the college."
Will came hurrying up, and when he spoke his words gave them a thrill.
"Now you've gone and done it, you young rapscallions!" cried Isaac Chase, so excited that he could hardly control his trembling voice.
"But the trouble is, none of us threw it!" burst out Jerry, determined that the true facts should be known at any rate, even if they did have to foot the bill.
"Come, let's be moving along, fellows," Bluff finally remarked.
It galled him to think they had been made the scapegoats by Andy Lasher and his set, though he knew only too well that once Frank's mind was made up to pay for the broken window nothing could change him.
It isn't fair for you to pay the bill.
"I got caught there, and it keeps on burning like a hot iron.
"Oh, Uncle Felix, don't I love you!" muttered Bluff, as if a sudden brilliant idea had come into his mind.
"Yes, look at my right cheek, if you want to prove that," Bluff advised them.
Look who's coming out of the house on the rampage, will you!" cried Bluff Masters, as the front door was flung open and an excited man hurried down the steps toward the spot where the four chums stood breathing hard after their recent exertions.
"I saw the postman come out of our gate," Will commented.
"A hard snowball can sting like fun when it catches you there."
"We'll figure all that out in a day or so, never fear," Will observed.
"We're sorry, mr Chase, that your window was broken," said Frank steadily; "it was an accident, I give you my word about that.
They talked it over as they sauntered in the direction of their homes. It happened that Will Milton's house was the first they came to.
But Frank rather liked being made the scapegoat; he certainly faced the angry old miser of Centerville without showing a sign of alarm.
"You only ducked, Frank, when you saw it headed your way.
If I had a boy, I'd want him to be just your style, Frank."
"I like the manly way you stand up and take hard knocks.
"See here, Frank, you don't think Teddy could have set that fire, I hope?" demanded Bluff, uneasily.
A new life was opening up to Teddy.
Evidently Teddy had heard enough.
"It's Bill-Bill Nackerson!"
Frank had an idea they would be visited by a big snowfall before twenty four hours had passed.
I think myself it would be a fine woods picture, and add to his collection."
And the boys soon learned that Teddy could manage splendidly.
He feared the brutal sportsman more than ever, now that he had found such a fine harbor of refuge with the outdoor chums.
"Huh! that's a queer thing to say," remonstrated Bluff.
Why, he might have been the death of some of them!"
I'd like to know how you figure that out, Frank."
He had never before come in contact with such an agreeable lot of companions and every hour of the day he tried to prove himself grateful.
He loved to watch the small woods folk when they did not suspect his presence, and learn more and more of their interesting habits.
"Well, wouldn't that jar you?" remarked Bluff, as he heard what was contained in the brief communication from the lumberman.
Frank did not tell all of his chums about what he had seen.
Frank was always accommodating, especially when anything connected with his knowledge of nature was concerned.
I wonder what he's run across now?"
"Oh! what a whopper!" he gasped, as he drew near the spot where they stood.
"My opinion, as far as I have any, is about like this," Frank continued.
"If we don't get another while we're up here in the Big Woods," said Jerry, suppressing the natural twinge of jealousy he felt, "we ought to be satisfied with our bag.
He did not like to betray his kinsman, and yet felt that it was not right to refrain from taking someone into his confidence.
"I hope he gets that prize the railroads are offering. So far as I can tell he has a dandy collection already, and we've got some time ahead of us still."
"He looks excited, fellows.
"It does seem as though he had met with nothing but success, so far," Frank admitted.
"Speaking of angels, and you're most sure to hear their wings," chuckled Jerry; "for there's Will coming this way now."
But I snapped him before he turned and trotted off!"
On the second day, about noon, some of the boys were busy near the cabin, laying in an extra supply of firewood.
And Will is just wild over the bully pictures he's accumulating every day and night."
"Sure he would, because Old Joe, as he called the fur farmer, had pulled up stakes and gone to town for some weeks," Bluff admitted.
"Oh! no, it isn't so bad as that," he was assured.
"Why, who else would try to turn on mr Darrel that way, and burn his shanties down just when winter is setting in?" asked Bluff.
"Who-what-where-how?" demanded Will, apparently confused, and not able to understand what all these strange hints portended.
"Oh!
They could see that his face was red from his exertions, but filled with excitement as well; while his eyes were, as Bluff expressed it, "sticking out of his head!"
He was beginning to get over the nervousness that had shown itself for a whole day following his advent in the new camp.
Another, and yet a third found the boys enjoying themselves to the limit.
He could get around fairly well by now, Jerry having cut him a walking stick, with a crook at the end.
"We had a specimen of his nasty temper, you know," continued Bluff. "Yes, twice now we've heard him tear around like a bull in a china shop."
"Of course that's only a hazard, fellows," he told Bluff and Jerry, who were helping him add to the handy heap close to the door of the cabin, "but there does seem to be a feeling of dampness in the air, for all it's so cold; and the sun, you notice, shines through a sort of hazy curtain."
That was a lucky shot you made yesterday, Bluff. The buckshot shell did the business, too, for after you fired both barrels the buck went down with a crash."
He had to be shown very little so as to suit their tastes; and none of them regretted in the least that they had extended a helping hand toward one in distress.
"He's the only party around that we know of who would be mean enough to try to set buildings on fire, just to get even with a man he disliked," he observed.
When Nackerson had gone away, perhaps with one of his pals who agreed to stand back of him, that's the time Teddy lit out."
"If he had missed connections with that trap Teddy would have reached the skunk farm only to meet with disappointment."
"After Nackerson struck Teddy the boy happened to overhear him boasting about what he meant to do to the camp at Lumber Run."
"Of course, I'm only guessing all this, remember.
"Oh! now I tumble to what you mean," cried Will, who did not often use any sort of slang, and must therefore have been unusually excited to fall into the habit.
"That's what we did," asserted Will.
"Well, if you asked me my opinion, I'd have to admit that I didn't like the looks of a few of those lumberjacks."
Frank nodded his head.
Teddy was showing decided signs of improvement.
"Horns, Will?" Bluff fired at him; "cows have horns, deer carry antlers!"
"We've got off pretty fortunately so far about storms," Bluff went on, as he threw another armful of fuel on the already huge pile.
"He may speak sooner or later," Frank told himself; "and if he does, it will not be the reward of a hundred dollars for information that will make him tell."
"He struck it pretty hard at first, getting caught in that trap," Frank mused; "but when you come right down to facts I guess it was just as well that it happened to him."
Still, he did not mention a word about what he might possibly know of the dastardly deed, when some one attempted to fire the logging camp. Frank often saw a worried expression come over the boy's face, and at such times he suspected that Teddy was puzzling his brain as to just what his duty might be.
"I wouldn't be at all surprised if Teddy knew something about that fire business," he mentioned to Bluff, a short time later, when they walked together down to the spot where the mink tracks had been seen, as the latter had shown more or less interest in the habits of these little animals.
At the same time it gave him food for much serious thought.
So that day passed.
DID TEDDY KNOW?
"What trotted off?" shrilled Bluff.
"This way," explained the other.
Perhaps the boy had feared that Nackerson might come storming along, and insist on his returning to his duties as cook.
He saw what Frank's plan was, and while he may not have entirely agreed with such a course, there was no disposition to interfere.
"By the way, where is Will now?" asked Bluff,
"We can only give a guess at that," Frank told him.
Frank noticed that the head had disappeared from alongside the open door.
"The big coward!" muttered Bluff, clenching his fists and shaking his head, as though he would like nothing better than to get in a blow at the bully.
We never know when we're well off, do we?
As soon as he was able to get around he insisted on taking charge of the cooking.
"And on the run, too!" added Frank.
"I'll keep as mum as an oyster till you give me the tip that it's time to speak. Just as you say, Teddy couldn't have been the one to put the match to the camp over at Lumber Run.
Perhaps he had suspected that the others brought news of some startling character.
To go back to that other drudgery would have been torture.
"What's that?" demanded Frank, wondering what was coming now.
Will was almost out of breath.
"After all, I wouldn't put it past him, Frank."
I saw his head, though after a bit, when we had talked matters over, he went back to the fire again."
"He heard strangers talking outside when those two loggers came up," Frank continued, "and even dragged himself to the door to listen.
"You've got it about straight, Bluff," Frank admitted.
"You know best how to work it, Frank," he said simply.
"Getting hung up in an old bear trap a blessing in disguise, was it?
"Whoever started the fire didn't care a hoot whether it hurt or not, I think," Bluff gave as his opinion.
"That's what they were, sticking away up over his head that was like a mule's.
Bluff was not slow of comprehension.
"Tried to burn down the camp at Lumber Run, did they?" burst out Jerry.
Before half a minute had passed, Frank was pointing to certain marks plainly seen in the inch and more of snow that had fallen on the previous night, perhaps as a sort of forerunner of the coming storm.
"We take it all back," Jerry vowed.
Bluff glanced quickly at Frank.
And don't I hope that first picture turns out good!
"I believe myself that I never got such splendid effects!" he exclaimed.
Bluff caught him by the arm.
He had been in one or two himself, and would not care to repeat certain experiences that had come his way, unless well provided against hunger and bitter cold.
"I dare you!" he said.
"It was a moose, all right, Frank!" said Jerry.
"That light snow falling last night was in our favor, for the tracks will show up well," suggested Jerry.
If we don't show up by night, why, chances are we found ourselves so far away that we concluded to make camp."
If anybody goes, it will have to be you two."
"There you are, fellows!" he announced.
He hovered about the pair, and constantly warned them against carelessness.
"Did he run away then?" asked Frank.
"I'm done eating," announced Bluff.
"Frank, you can depend on us to be careful," Bluff told him earnestly. "But for goodness' sake don't worry about us.
You must stop long enough to eat a lot, because there's no telling when you may get another square meal."
The three soon reached the cabin.
"If only you'll hold your horses until I can develop this film, you shall see for yourself whether I know a stag from a bull moose," he was told by the indignant photographer, as the latter broke away and vanished inside the cabin.
"That's going to be a prize picture, all right!"
If I do say it myself, we've had our eyeteeth cut for some time.
"No need of rushing off as though you were crazy," Frank told them. "Will says the moose didn't act as though it was badly frightened by seeing him, so it isn't likely it will cover a great many miles before stopping again.
Think how easy I could have dropped him, with such a short distance between.
"I hope it wasn't just a mule that strayed away from some lumber camp," he told the others, as they hurried off; but not before Bluff and Jerry had darted inside the cabin and reappeared, carrying their guns.
"Yes, and here's where Will made himself a seat," added Bluff.
"Wait just a minute or two, Will," he pleaded.
"He fixed it so he could sit comfortably, and not have to frighten the family of bushy tails by moving.
"I know what you're thinking, Bluff, and that I wouldn't know a bull moose if I saw one.
Bluff and Jerry were hurrying as fast as they could.
"How did it happen, Will?" asked Frank.
Bluff turned to Frank.
"No need of that," came the reply, "because I'd be willing to start after that moose alone, and follow him for a week, if I thought I could get a fair crack at him in the end."
"Yes," said Jerry, "which would make it over there that the thing showed up.
Frank had redeemed his promise to see that there was something put up in small shape that would help out for supper, in case they were delayed.
I was nearly scared to death at first, for he looked nearly as big as a barn.
It was a remarkable pose, if only the focus was right."
But you're away off in your guess.
"Oh, I looked up to see what had made that queer sound, and there he was, just standing and looking straight at me!
Frank was more than willing.
"Well," said Will, stepping forward and holding up a dripping film, "take a peep at this, will you, and tell me if I know what I'm talking about or not!"
"Turned and trotted off, as if he didn't care whether school kept or not," Will continued.
Will was too busy working at his developing tank to sit down with the rest.
CHAPTER seventeen
Just look how I got him square in the middle of my plate!
"Oh, we won't get lost!" he said loftily.
"The sooner the better, so as to keep his lead cut down as much as we can," he was told by Bluff, after which they both turned toward Frank, for, after all, it would be from this quarter that the signal to start must eventually come.
"I was just going to say the same myself," Jerry added, being evidently quite as much interested as Bluff.
Bluff even got down on hands and knees in order to see better.
"Good luck, and I hope you get him!" said that individual, meaning every word, for he had already come to care a great deal for these jolly boys who had been the means of helping him over a very rough place in the road.
All stared hard at the monstrous tracks.
He did not feel that they could entirely depend on the evidence of Will, who may have been so startled by the sudden coming of some animal that his imagination worked overtime.
"You'll have to count me out of that deal," Frank told them.
THE BIG MOOSE
Bluff got up again, shaking his head.
Frank, however, understood what a blizzard meant up there in Maine.
"It's a moose, all right, Will!" Frank told the proud photographer.
"Let's all take a look," he suggested.
"You remember that I sprained my ankle yesterday, and a long walk would lay me up.
There never was such a bully chance to get a big moose, and we want to do our level best.
"I should hope so," grunted Jerry.
Bluff and Jerry may have considered Frank a bit too old womanish, making all that fuss over just going off on a little chase after a wandering moose.
"Tell us some more. Where did all this happen?"
"A bull moose, you say, Will?" echoed Bluff, his face lighting up with sudden energy.
"Give me five minutes more to get this film in fresh water and then I'll come."
"Here's the place," Frank told them, a short time afterward.
He also thrust several small boxes of safety matches into each of their coats, and made sure Bluff had his compass.
"I even had the nerve to shoot him again as he was going.
I'll see to it that each of you has something to help make out a meal or so.
Those last words from Frank made Will very proud.
I've so longed to meet up with one when I had my camera with me that I've been picturing how he'd look.
"I wasn't thinking so much of that as the chance of a blizzard coming down on you," Frank continued.
"Oh, the meanest luck that ever was!" he lamented.
Look for us when we come.
He started toward the cabin door as though anxious to develop his roll of film and discover what success his labor had resulted in.
Let's take a look at the ground, and see if Will was dreaming or not."
It won't weigh heavy; but if you do need it you'll thank me for it."
They shook hands on the bargain, and so it was ratified.
"And sure a whopper, just as you said!" added Bluff.
It's better to be born lucky than rich, any day."
Then I knew it must be a bull moose; and the next thing I found myself taking his picture."
Lunch must be nearly ready.
We would feel pretty sorry if anything happened to mar our holiday up here."
"We'd be pack horses if we tried to carry any more truck along."
We're not the 'Babes in the Woods,' you know.
Well, so long, boys, and we all wish you success."
"Why couldn't I have taken a notion to step out here with Will, to watch the way he took the pictures of that squirrel family?
"Got everything now?" asked Bluff.
"Why, I warrant you can see every hair on his head.
"Be sure to take along an extra supply of matches.
"After this, we'll own up that you know a bull moose from a mule or a buck deer every time."
"Well, chances are it was a bull moose," Frank admitted; "but we'll soon know."
"I was sitting as still as anything," the other related, "after I'd got two dandy snaps at that funny squirrel family playing around the tree where they have their home, and was hoping for another whack at them to complete the set, when all at once I heard a whiffing sound."
Bluff and Jerry shook hands gravely all around, even with Teddy.
"Couldn't cram another bite down, after seeing that picture!" Jerry proclaimed, as he darted over to the corner where his rifle stood, and began to buckle on the webbed belt filled with cartridges.
It's cruel, that's what it is!"
Jerry clapped him on the shoulder.
"From the prints made by its big split hoofs, I'm pretty sure of that," Frank asserted; "I'm beginning to believe Will was not so far out of the way, after all, when he said it might be the giant of all Maine moose!"
As soon as the boys saw the splendid negative, in clear cut lights and shadows, they burst into a chorus of cries.
"Plenty of time when I get through with this," he told them.
peter left him grumbling and growling, and chuckled to himself all the way back to the dear Old Briar patch.
"Why!
Johnny Chuck certainly is right at home when it comes to digging."
"I've climbed up bushes and low trees lots of times, and if I can get a good run first, I can climb up the straight trunk of a tree with rough bark to the first branches-if they are not too far above ground.
He grumbled and growled to himself.
"If I didn't I would starve," responded Johnny Chuck promptly. "When it gets near time for Jack Frost to arrive, I stuff and stuff and stuff on the last of the good green things until I'm so fat I can hardly waddle.
It made him feel quite uncomfortable.
"I dig a new hole each spring. mrs Chuck and I like a change of scene.
"Of course," replied Johnny Chuck.
Johnny bobbed his head and said, "Good morning."
"You remember," said Old Mother Nature, "how surprised you little folks were when I told you that Johnny Chuck is a member of the Squirrel family. Happy Jack, you go sit beside Johnny Chuck, and the rest of you look hard at Happy Jack and Johnny and see if you do not see a family resemblance."
"Six or eight," replied Johnny Chuck.
"No," replied Johnny Chuck.
Johnny shook his head.
There were one or two other little rooms, and there were two branch tunnels leading up to the surface of the ground, making side or back doorways.
peter Rabbit delivered Mother Nature's message to Johnny Chuck. Johnny didn't seem at all pleased.
"Climb!" exclaimed peter Rabbit.
He has a Squirrel face when you come to look at him closely.
Johnny Chuck obediently sat up, and of course all the others stared at him.
"Where else would they be born?"
peter was delighted to air his knowledge.
He has a number of whiskers and they are black.
"Our babies are born in that little underground bedroom, and they stay down in the ground until they are big enough to hunt for food for themselves."
He didn't want to go to school.
"As you will notice, Johnny Chuck's coat is brownish yellow, his feet are very dark brown, almost black.
Those are to help him dig, for all the Marmot family are great diggers. What other use do you have for those claws, Johnny?"
It keeps me warm and keeps me alive until I can find the first green plants.
However, it wasn't for your benefit that I sent word for you to be here this morning.
Down a little way the tunnel grew smaller and then remained the same size all the rest of the way. Way down at the farther end was a nice little bedroom with some grass in it.
Then I go down to my bedroom, curl up and go to sleep.
You will notice that Johnny has stout claws.
"Not many, but enough," growled Johnny Chuck.
Johnny Chuck does look like a Squirrel," he exclaimed.
"If you please, Mother Nature," said he, "I think I'll come.
Usually my new home isn't very far from my old one, because I am not fond of traveling. Sometimes, however, if we cannot find a place that just suits us, we go quite a distance."
"I sleep right through, thank goodness. Sometimes I wake up very early in the spring before the snow is all gone, earlier than I wish I did.
"Do you have many enemies?" asked peter Rabbit, who has so many himself that he is constantly thinking of them.
I didn't know I had any close relatives, and I want to know about them."
"Johnny Chuck is very much bigger and so stout in the body that he has none of the gracefulness of the true Squirrels. But you will notice that the shape of his head is much the same as that of Happy Jack.
"How many do you usually have?" inquired Chatterer the Red Squirrel.
Of course I have a lot of food stored away down in my house, and once in a while I wake up and eat a little.
"No," replied Johnny Chuck.
The Woodchucks, sometimes called Ground Hogs, though why any one should call them this is more than I can understand, belong to the Marmot branch of the Squirrel family, and wherever found they look much alike.
The truth is, Johnny Chuck was already beginning to get fat with good living and he is naturally lazy. As a rule he can find plenty to eat very near his home, so he seldom goes far from his own doorstep.
The more one knows the better fitted he is to take care of himself and do his part in the work of the Great World.
"He certainly is all right as a digger," exclaimed peter Rabbit. "My, how he can make the sand fly!
"No," replied Johnny.
He was perfectly satisfied with things as they were.
"Time is up," interrupted Old Mother Nature.
"mrs Chuck and I believe in large families."
Seeing Happy Jack and Johnny Chuck sitting up side by side, peter Rabbit caught the resemblance at once.
Do you ever wake up in the winter, Johnny Chuck?"
He knew that Johnny Chuck would not dare disobey Old Mother Nature.
His head is dark brown with light gray on his cheeks.
The entrance was quite large with a big heap of sand out in front of it.
Beneath he is reddish orange, including his throat.
"Do you use the same house year after year?" piped up Striped Chipmunk.
"Who ever heard of a Woodchuck climbing?"
Perhaps you have noticed that early in the spring I am as thin as I was fat in the fall.
"Johnny, here, is not fond of the Green Forest, but loves the Old orchard and the Green Meadows.
Now sit up so that all can get a good look at you."
Cold weather, snow and ice don't worry me a bit."
There was no sand around either of these, and they were quite hidden by the long grass hanging over them.
This is because I have used up the fat, waiting for the first green things to appear."
"Reddy Fox, Old Man Coyote, men and Dogs are the worst.
"Of course he looks like a Squirrel, because he is one," said Old Mother Nature.
"Are your babies born down in that little bedroom in the ground?" asked Jumper the Hare.
You are better as a digger."
"I understand," continued Old Mother Nature, "That you are not at all interested in learning about your relatives.
"I didn't know but mrs Chuck might make a nest on the ground the way mrs peter and mrs Jumper do," replied Jumper meekly.
"I sleep most of the winter myself.
"That's quite true, Johnny," said Old Mother Nature.
He didn't want to learn anything about his relatives.
"Good morning, Johnny Chuck," said she.
"I can climb if I have to," retorted Johnny Chuck indignantly.
You need not come tomorrow, Johnny Chuck, unless you want to," she added.
That is where my fat comes in handy.
"Huh!" interrupted Johnny Chuck.
You ask Reddy Fox if I can't; he knows."
It was for the benefit of your friends and neighbors.
That institution is reserved for men like Kennicott who, after devoting fifty years to "putting aside a stake," incontinently invest the stake in spurious oil stocks.
The captain introduced her to the secretary of a congressman, a cynical young widow with many acquaintances in the navy.
Guy Pollock wrote to a cousin, a temporary army captain, a confiding and buoyant lad who took Carol to tea dances, and laughed, as she had always wanted some one to laugh, about nothing in particular.
She could never again be quite so awed by the power with which she herself had endowed the Vidas and Blaussers and Bogarts.
CHAPTER thirty seven
Vida Sherwin had given her a letter to an earnest woman with eye glasses, plaid silk waist, and a belief in Bible Classes, who introduced her to the Pastor and the Nicer Members of Tincomb.
She concluded that it was because they were of secure reputation, not hemmed in by the fire of provincial jealousies.
A Western mining settlement like a tumor.
She filed correspondence all day; then she dictated answers to letters of inquiry.
With the congressman's secretary and the teacher Carol leased a small flat.
It was an endurance of monotonous details, yet she asserted that she had found "real work."
Nor could she upon inquiry learn that many of this reckless race died in the poorhouse.
She found the same faith not only in girls escaped from domesticity but also in demure old ladies who, tragically deprived of esteemed husbands and huge old houses, yet managed to make a very comfortable thing of it by living in small flats and having time to read.
Yet they seemed to be as efficient as the Sam Clarks.
She discovered that in the afternoon, office routine stretches to the grave.
Carol recognized in Washington as she had in California a transplanted and guarded Main Street.
Though the armistice with Germany was signed a few weeks after her coming to Washington, the work of the bureau continued.
But she was casually adopted by this family of friendly women who, when they were not being mobbed or arrested, took dancing lessons or went picnicking up the Chesapeake Canal or talked about the politics of the American Federation of Labor.
The teacher took her to headquarters.
Washington gave her all the graciousness in which she had had faith: white columns seen across leafy parks, spacious avenues, twisty alleys. Daily she passed a dark square house with a hint of magnolias and a courtyard behind it, and a tall curtained second story window through which a woman was always peering.
Even her flight had been but the temporary courage of panic.
They welcomed Carol, asked about her husband, gave her advice regarding colic in babies, passed her the gingerbread and scalloped potatoes at church suppers, and in general made her very unhappy and lonely, so that she wondered if she might not enlist in the militant suffrage organization and be allowed to go to jail.
Her glimpse of tasks involving millions of people and a score of nations reduced Main Street from bloated importance to its actual pettiness.
Unhappy women are given to protecting their sensitiveness by cynical gossip, by whining, by high church and new thought religions, or by a fog of vagueness.
The thing she gained in Washington was not information about office systems and labor unions but renewed courage, that amiable contempt called poise.
A rich farming center in New Jersey, off the railroad, furiously pious, ruled by old men, unbelievably ignorant old men, sitting about the grocery talking of james g Blaine.
She herself put him to bed and played with him on holidays.
Not individuals but institutions are the enemies, and they most afflict the disciples who the most generously serve them.
The chart which plots Carol's progress is not easy to read.
Not to have to apologize for her thoughts to the Jolly Seventeen, not to have to report to Kennicott at the end of the day all that she had done or might do, was a relief which made up for the office weariness.
Her first acquaintances were the members of the Tincomb Methodist Church, a vast red brick tabernacle.
Some day-oh, she'd have to take him back to open fields and the right to climb about hay lofts.
But they played, very simply, and they saw no reason why anything which exists cannot also be acknowledged.
It did not appear that the Great World needed her inspiration, but she felt that her letters, her contact with the anxieties of men and women all over the country, were a part of vast affairs, not confined to Main Street and a kitchen but linked with Paris, Bangkok, Madrid.
The woman was mystery, romance, a story which told itself differently every day; now she was a murderess, now the neglected wife of an ambassador.
Kennicott and Main Street had drained her self reliance; the presence of Hugh made her feel temporary.
There were walks with him, there were motionless evenings of reading, but chiefly Washington was associated with people, scores of them, sitting about the flat, talking, talking, talking, not always wisely but always excitedly. It was not at all the "artist's studio" of which, because of its persistence in fiction, she had dreamed.
Kennicott had asserted that the villager's lack of courtesy is due to his poverty.
Most of the men who came to the flat, whether they were army officers or radicals who hated the army, had the easy gentleness, the acceptance of women without embarrassed banter, for which she had longed in Gopher Prairie.
She felt that she was no longer one half of a marriage but the whole of a human being.
She perceived that she could do office work without losing any of the putative feminine virtue of domesticity; that cooking and cleaning, when divested of the fussing of an Aunt Bessie, take but a tenth of the time which, in a Gopher Prairie, it is but decent to devote to them.
But she also learned that by comparison Gopher Prairie was a model of daring color, clever planning, and frenzied intellectuality.
james Blausser-Come On You Twin Cities-Our Hat Is In the Ring."
At her solicitation Lyman Cass gave Champ a warm berth as night watchman.
They say we can't make Gopher Prairie, God bless her! just as big as Minneapolis or saint Paul or Duluth.
"And I am proud to say, my fellow citizens, that in his brief stay here mr Blausser has become my warm personal friend as well as my fellow booster, and I advise you all to very carefully attend to the hints of a man who knows how to achieve."
The wheat money did not remain in the pockets of the farmers; the towns existed to take care of all that.
And Raymie-surely this was not Raymie, but a sterner brother of his, this man with the tight blouse, the shoulder emblems, the trim legs in boots. His face seemed different, his lips more tight.
Kennicott was respectful as he inquired whether the Germans had good aeroplanes, and what a salient was, and a cootie, and Going West.
He could not do his work as buyer at the elevator.
He never came to the house without trying to paw her.
mr Blausser reared up like an elephant with a camel's neck-red faced, red eyed, heavy fisted, slightly belching-a born leader, divinely intended to be a congressman but deflected to the more lucrative honors of real-estate.
How does the poor fish know?' says they.
Ray still needed nursing, she explained.
Americanism, and Pointing with Pride.
Harry would be the town's rich man in the coming generation, and Major Wutherspoon would rise with him, and Vida was jubilant, though she was regretful at having to give up most of her Red Cross work.
She could nurse Champ Perry, and warm to the neighborliness of Sam Clark, but she could not sit applauding Honest Jim Blausser.
The rooms over the store were silent.
Hear what he said to old ezra?
The town was booming, as a result of the war price of wheat.
He was attentive to all women.
Without understanding why Carol was troubled by this intensity.
She tried to have him appointed to the postmastership, which, since all the work was done by assistants, was the one sinecure in town, the one reward for political purity.
They were composed of ornamented posts with clusters of high powered electric lights along two or three blocks on Main Street.
Then, glory of glories, the town put in a White Way.
The town welcomed mr Blausser as fully as Carol snubbed him.
Champ was broken.
The elevator company, ezra Stowbody president, let him go.
But it proved that mr Bert Tybee, the former bartender, desired the postmastership.
Harry Haydock, as chairman, introduced Honest Jim Blausser.
In her funeral procession were the eleven people left out of the Grand Army and the Territorial Pioneers, old men and women, very old and weak, who a few decades ago had been boys and girls of the frontier, riding broncos through the rank windy grass of this prairie.
Chucked him in the ribs and said, 'Say, boy, what do you want to go to Denver for?
It was rumored that he surprised Vida by coming unannounced, that Vida fainted when she saw him, and for a night and day would not share him with the town.
He was not Raymie; he was Major Wutherspoon; and Kennicott and Carol were grateful when he divulged that Paris wasn't half as pretty as Minneapolis, that all of the American soldiers had been distinguished by their morality when on leave.
But whoever bought or sold or mortgaged, the townsmen invited themselves to the feast-millers, real-estate men, lawyers, merchants, and dr Will Kennicott.
She wondered if he had heard of Erik, and was taking advantage.
And he's pretty cute, too.
Well I'll tell you how I know!
You take a genuwine, honest to God homo Americanibus and there ain't anything he's afraid to tackle.
He liked to be called Honest Jim.
In three months Kennicott made seven thousand dollars, which was rather more than four times as much as society paid him for healing the sick.
She hated the man, and she was afraid of him.
He was not Major Wutherspoon; he was Raymie.
When Carol saw him with his uniform off, in a pepper and salt suit and a new gray felt hat, she was disappointed.
She learned, in brief, that this was the one Logical Location for factories and wholesale houses.
Snap and speed are his middle name!
In early summer began a "campaign of boosting." The Commercial Club decided that Gopher Prairie was not only a wheat center but also the perfect site for factories, summer cottages, and state institutions.
